This is an environment that is very
volatile.
>> In general, things have been drifting
more positive.
>> Yields still look elevated versus where
they've been.
>> Our long-term outlook for the equity
market is that the returns are going to
be lower than they have been over the
prior 5 or 10 years.
>> Everything is expensive right now and I
think we should expect lower returns
across the board, both from stocks and
from bonds. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, hello September. The S&P
500 heading into a big month on a
4-month winning streak as President
Donald Trump's tariff plans are facing
another legal setback. Long bond yields
from the UK to France and Japan are
breaking out to fresh multi-deade highs.
>> There is so much to unpack this week.
Wall Street is back supposedly.
Washington is back. Economic data is
back. And this was the point in the year
where we were supposed to have more
certainty. Bond deals were supposed to
be more calm because we had a sense of
what the tariffs were going to do, what
the geopolitical backdrop was going to
look like, and what deficits would look
like. And right now, it looks like we're
anything but. The fog is getting thicker
as there are questions around what will
happen with the tariffs as well as
frankly what's going to happen with some
of these governments around the world.
>> Let's start with this bond market. State
side getting closer to 5% on 30s. In the
UK, 30-year bond yields the highest
since 1998 in France, 2011 in Japan on
record. You're seeing this all around
the world.
>> And you could say maybe this is just
because of the United States, but
actually no. You have, of course, the no
confidence vote next Monday in France.
They could potentially upend not only
this government, but also its plans for
stripping back some of the spending that
are hugely unpopular. With the United
Kingdom, it's going to be maybe the
Starmer moment. That's what people are
speculating. It's not going to be the
Rachel Reef moment, although she has to
face off with a slew of terrible
options. This is the doom loop that you
keep talking about when you have bond
yields going up, borrowing costs going
up, and you have revenues coming down,
and you have an economy that isn't
growing. How do you put that together
with something that actually is feasible
for the currency and for the bond
market?
>> Well, to your point, that last point
really important. The currency and the
bond market, the tension in the UK, bond
yields up, sterling weaker, the pound,
the biggest one day loss so far going
back to April. Sterling down by more
than 1%.
>> And this comes with a backdrop of
supposed dollar weakness. people saying
that the Fed because it's going to be so
politicized is going to cut rates. It's
going to allow inflation to go up and
that's going to cause the dollar to
weaken and yet against what? And this is
really showing this in prime light. The
idea of United Kingdom not providing an
alternative. The European Union with
France and the yields on those bonds
versus Italian bonds shrinking to the
narrowest in 2003 not coming from there.
So where is the leadership coming from
and the fiscal responsibility that is
really what a lot of the bond markets
really are looking for?
>> We've got a big month coming up. states
side as we anticipate the payrolls
report the estimates are in starting to
build the median here at Bloomberg 75K
the range the highest 115 the low is
zero that's how Friday is set up so far
going into payrolls
>> what's the biggest risk event a better
thanex expected payrolls report or a
weaker than expected payrolls report and
I say this at a time when the entire
market got a sigh of relief after the
Jackson Hole speech oh the Fed's going
to cut rates how high is the bar for the
Fed not to cut rates later this month if
we get say a really good payrolls report
or is it in the bag and then suddenly
people have to wonder are we going to
see some sort of acceleration of
inflation I know I sound like a worry
ward to start the year start the school
year but to truly this is going to be a
momentous time where not only there's a
question about what the data is but what
we do with the data both from an
economic perspective as well as a
political one
>> I'm right there with you the inflation
story front and center we get an
inflation print next week on the 11th
gold at all-time highs more still to
come on precious metals in equity
market, equity futures negative by 0.5%
on the S&P 500 in the bond market.
That's where the headlines are this
morning. Coming up this hour, Jay
Pilowski of TPW advisory with stocks on
a four-month winning streak. We'll catch
up with the former NEC deputy director
Everett Eisenstat with President Trump's
tariffs and legal limbo and Leland
Miller of China Beige as she warms ties
with India and Russia. We begin this
hour with stocks looking to add to four
months of gains. Jay Pilowski, the
founder of TPW Advisory, writing the
following. The global bull market is
broadening out as more and more markets
hit all-time highs. As we enter fall, we
would not be surprised by a performance
chase into year end. Jay joins us now
for more. Jay, welcome to the program,
sir. A different character in the equity
market rally of the last month. Small
caps up 7%, double-digit gains for the
homebuilders, for the airlines for the
month of August. Jay, do you believe
that can continue? Um yes, certainly in
the case of uh small caps, John, it's
great to be with you and Lisa even at
this early hour. I'm impressed by you
guys how you do this every day. Um yeah,
we're uh constructive uh going into year
end and we're looking at the lagard. So,
you know, small caps is a lagard, energy
is a lagard, uh, things of that nature,
uh, are starting to perform, and we
think that's what's going to continue
and continue to confound investors who
have been, you know, playing off the
back foot since April. And so, we expect
uh, a performance chase into year end.
uh for us we're we're basically rotating
out of US tech into lagards within the
US as well as uh emerging market
equities and then as I say very bullish
on commodities very bullish on energy
and on renewable energy in particular. J
want to pick up on what's happened with
the Federal Reserve and how it might
inform some of those views. Lisa
mentioned it. This is a Fed now led by
Chairman Pal that seems to be more
worried about jobs and less worried
about inflation and perhaps even more
tolerant of it. Now that second point, I
think the framing of it Jay is really
really important. Do you sense this Fed
is more tolerant of higher inflation and
how does that play into this view?
What's been happening with small caps
and for that matter with bond yields
worldwide as well?
>> Well, we think that the focus really is
fiscal, John, and we've been talking
about this for over a year. uh monetary
policy less important, fiscal policy
more important. That's why you see uh
the long end breaking out as you pointed
out at the open here around the world.
It's a global issue and that's because
governments have to spend. Governments
have to spend on AI, on climate, on
defense. There's no choice. These are
all existential. And so we expect that
to continue. Uh we've talked about this
before on this show. We've been out of
uh government bonds for years, years.
Haven't owned a Treasury bond in several
years and continue to feel that way
about the rest of the world. So to us,
it's all about fiscal. It's all about
growth. Fed is less important. If the
Fed doesn't cut, that's probably sets up
a little bit of a pullback here. Uh that
would be viable because I do think
people are now believing that almost
with a certainty the Fed will cut uh
later on this month. If they don't pull
back, it's viable. Um, if they do,
markets continue to be okay. Look, and
the issue is not economics. It's not
politics. It's really quite simple.
Earnings earnings drive equities and
earnings have been good. Forward
earnings revisions globally are rising.
Uh, you have liquidity, abundant
liquidity around the world. People's
Bank of China, ECB, Fed, all providing
liquidity and you have a very robust
technical position underpinning the
market. Just one quick example, 100%
of the equity markets in the
Asia-Pacific are above their 200 day
moving average. 100%. That's the first
time in four years we have a global
equity bull market. I'm just struggling
to square the idea that we could see
yields particularly on the long end
continuing to rise because of fiscal
spending and you could see
outperformance by some of the most
yields sensitive areas of the market.
How do you square that circle?
>> Well, I think that there's there's
leverage to uh rate cuts. So, on the
front end, right, uh the ECB has cut.
We're in a global rate cutting cycle as
well, Lisa, as you know. uh vast numbers
of central banks around the world have
been cutting, will be cutting going
forward. Uh if the Fed joins them, small
caps are the play. They have the most
sensitivity. Small caps benefit from
deregulation. That's a big focus of the
Trump administration. So, uh you know, I
think there's there's a rationale here.
And look, what we think is kind of
interesting is that the there there are
record short positions in things like
small caps. There's the most bearish oil
positioning in 25 years according to
folks who really focused on that
segment. So there's a lot of negativity
hiding out in pockets of the market that
have not performed. And as they start to
perform, we think that is the catalyst
and the kindling for the the the runup
into year end. Cuz if if all of a sudden
the places where people are hiding and
are negative, flip to being positive, as
John pointed out, small caps up 7% in a
month, then you got to get on that
train. Uh particularly if December is
only a few months away. You know, I've
actually been somewhat surprised that
markets have completely shrugged off the
court ruling uh that happened late last
week when we really have to rethink
whether these tariffs that Trump has put
on will be able to be maintained. And I
know that there are other options, but
it raises a question for the bond market
and it raises a question for fiscal
spending. How much does this actually
not plug a hole in the deficit? That's
crucial. It's going to send yields even
higher. And then how much does this
force more cuts, not more spending, in
order to offset that? Are you just
dismissing the possibility of cuts that
have been proposed in places from the UK
to France to here in the United States?
>> Cuts in in rates? I'm sorry.
>> No, cuts in fiscal spending.
>> Spending. Okay. Thank you. Um, you know,
uh, we wrote a piece six months ago now
called the Stoic Strategy, right? Where
we said the the number one uh strategy
uh to invest in the age of Trump is to
ignore everything that Trump and his
Trump and his administration have said.
That's worked out phenomenally well,
right? It's been an investing superpower
to ignore Trump and his uh admin and
focus on the things we just talked
about. As far as uh spending cuts, look,
it looks like places like the UK are um
facing those issues. We don't think
that's an issue in Europe. We expect
growth next year. Not only are we
looking into year end, but we're now
looking into 2026. In 2026, two big
things we expect to see happen. One,
better European growth driven by German
stimulus, defense spending, etc. Two,
most importantly, China defeating
deflation. We are super focused on
China's ability to defeat deflation and
drive economic growth. We expect that to
happen. We're watching the 10-year
government bond in China as our
bellweather signal there. Think it's the
single most important macro number in
the world today. as that heads north
towards 2% suggesting that deflation
will be defeated in China. Those are the
things that are going to drive markets,
not frankly whether spending is cut in
uh in the UK for example.
Do you also believe they're going to
aggressively cut excess capacity? If so,
and where? And has that changed your
views from sector to sector?
>> 100%. John, you're right on top of it.
No surprise, buddy. Um yeah and and
where the opportunity is is in renewable
energy, right? Uh uh the anti-inv China
has a two-pronged approach to defeating
deflation. The first anti-involution,
reduce excess capacity. That's focusing
mostly in uh the renewable energy space
in solar and in wind and in EVs. So,
what is breaking out? Interestingly
enough, renewable energy. Uh, ICLN is
the ETF that we focus on. It looks like
a champ. It just broke above its 200 day
moving average for the first time in
over a year. The second prong is
consumption, right? Fiscal stimulus to
drive consumption, to drive demand,
moving on uh to cash handouts. China is
actually engaging in cash handouts to
stimulate uh consumption. And so the big
opportunity as we see it right now to
benefit from this beyond you know China
large caps and K web which again you and
I know I've been we've been invested in
overweight China for close to two years
now. Um but the big opportunity right
now is in the renewable energy space as
a play on China successfully defeating
deflation.
>> Hey Jay, great to catch up with you Jay
Pilowski of TPW advisory. Let's play
this out one further step and take
another asset class. Let's say Jay's
right on China. What does that mean for
the global bond market? If China
actually slays the deflation beast, what
does that mean for this bond move we're
seeing already take place around the
world?
>> So, you're looking for some sort of
discipline and you're not going to find
it suddenly in China, well, then all
bets are off and you've got this global
inflationary cycle with uh maybe China
demanding higher prices for their goods
because they're going to cut some of the
over capacity. In other words, if you're
looking for anyone to tame inflation,
it's been China. If they're going to uh
reverse that, well, let's see how far
these yields can get.
>> Gold gets it. Record highs for precious
metals. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief and some breaking news. Here's
Yahihara Arnard. Hey, Yahihara.
>> Hi, John. Exactly. The Craft Hind
company's board approved a plan to
separate the firm into two independent
publicly traded companies through a
tax-free spin-off. The two resulting
companies will have names determined at
a later date. Craft Hines expects the
transaction to close in the second half
of the next year. The companies had
merged about a decade ago. Meanwhile,
the Trump administration is preparing to
take its case to the Supreme Court after
an appeals court ruled that the bulk of
Trump's global tariffs were illegal.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant saying
the appeal will emphasize the
long-standing trade imbalances facing
the US as well as the need to curb the
flow of fentinel into the country.
And China, Russia, and India are
deepening their diplomatic ties, which
was on full display at its summit in
China. Leaders of the three nations have
been pushed closer together due to
President Trump's tariffs. And the
partnership between Beijing and Moscow
is growing as President Vladimir Putin
appears to have secured a deal to build
a gas pipeline to China through
Mongolia. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. More Yah in about 30
minutes time. Up next on the program,
President Donald Trump's tariffs face a
legal setback.
>> We think we're going to win at the
Supreme Court. We are close to a tipping
point where we could have financial
instability due to these large and
persistent trade deficits. So, we are
trying to head off a crisis.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with the former NEC Deputy Director Evra
Eisenstad, live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Hi from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Here's your week ahead. Later
on this morning, some economic data, ISM
manufacturing data. Look out for that
through the week. Lots on the jobs
front. Concludes on Friday. Payrolls
Friday just around the corner. In the
equity market, equity futures pulling
back by, let's call it a half of 1% on
the S&P 500. Following some massive
outperformance on smalls, the Russell
2000 is negative by 0.8. Let's just sit
on the bond market for a few beats. Want
to talk about 10 and 30s. In April, when
this administration came out with some
major tariffs, it was bond negative. In
August into September, as the courts
challenged these very same tariffs, it's
bond negative. GGA.
>> People thought that this would be
problematic in terms of both the deficit
and with respect to US trading
relationships. They underestimated back
in April how much revenue, actual
tangible revenue would be brought in and
how much that would offset the deficit.
Without that revenue, what does that do
to the fiscal backdrop and to the bond
market? And that is the reason why it
was negative then and negative today.
>> Remember Muhammad Alen would talk about
all these little fires. All these little
fires in the bond market right now in
the US. The UK has its own issues.
France, Japan, seeing it all build into
one big monstrosity potentially at the
long end of the yield curve worldwide.
>> Yeah. Bonfire of the credibility of
developed market economies and actually
cutting their deficits and being able to
do so effectively at a time of raising
costs. Bonfire of the vanity sort of
2025.
>> 30-year bond yields up by five basis
points closer and closer to 5% on a
30-year maturity state side. And Savanis
this morning, President Donald Trump's
tariffs face a legal setback.
>> We think we're going to win at the
Supreme Court. We are close to a tipping
point where we could have financial
instability due to these large and
persistent trade deficits. So, we are
trying to head off a crisis.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump facing a legal
setback in his tariff agenda after a
federal appeals court ruled most of the
levies are illegal. The Trump
administration vowing to take the case
to the Supreme Court. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now for the latest.
Good morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. So, these are
the tariffs that have to do with AIPA,
the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act. And the court ruled that
President Trump overstepped his
authority because in order to invoke
AIPA, the president had to declare a
national emergency that the
administration felt warranted a tariff
response. So in the case of the
so-called reciprocal tariffs, the
president cited persistent global trade
imbalances. And in the case of those
tariffs against Canada, Mexico, and
partly on China, the president cited
concerns when it comes to fentanyl and
the border. Keep in mind here, courts
have actually been uh historically
pretty differential to presidents and
their ability to declare national
emergencies, but we've never seen a
White House invoke AIPA in order to
impose tariffs, let alone such broad
ranging ones. Now, for the time being,
these levies are allowed to stay in
place while they make their way through
the court system. But I want to make one
really critical point here. The appeals
court upheld a lower court ruling from
the Court of International Trade, but it
actually urged the lower court to
re-examine its ruling and how it applies
to everyone instead of just the parties
that sued. Essentially looking into
whether or not this decision really
should be universal. that could have
some pretty big impacts here and leaves
this White House with really two options
on the table. One, they could have the
lower court retake up this question and
relook at the issue or they could appeal
directly to the Supreme Court. And at
this point, John, it seems like they're
headed in that direction. You just heard
the Treasury Secretary there saying that
they are prepared to take this all the
way. And we are expecting uh Besson to
actually put forth a brief to the
solicitor general as soon as today. Of
course, that's the one that would be
arguing this in front of the high court.
>> Tyler Kendall down in Washington DC.
Tyler, thank you. To build on this
conversation, joining us now, the former
NEC Deputy Director Everett Eisenstein.
Everra, welcome to the program, sir.
Companies don't know how to price this.
Governments don't know if they should or
shouldn't negotiate with this
government. Now, what do you think the
next move is?
Well, I think as as was indicated, I
think the administration's going to go
to the Supreme Court and and and get a
final determination on whether the tool
they use to put these tariffs in place
um are going to u stand or not. Um if
they fall, they've got a lot of other
options. They've got many different
statutes they could go to. They could go
to Congress and and get some, you know,
re revised statutory authority. So it's
it is an important matter and it is
quite significant but it is not the end
of the story by any means. Uh there's a
lot of other options out there.
>> At the same time the court decision
stayed these tariffs and kept them in
place until October 14th. And it seems
like that's a pretty ambitious timeline
for the Supreme Court to see this case.
What happens for companies between
October 14th and whenever the Supreme
Court takes this up given that they
could be owed compensation for what they
already paid for tariffs?
It's a really important point. I think
one one of the things we've been
counseling uh clients is to be sure to
be tracking their uh their import data.
Um you know, what are they what are they
uh bringing in uh making sure they file
protests at the appropriate time,
understanding their liquidation dates
because there may come a point in time
where a company has to take a proactive
uh stance to actually go and get these
tariffs back. Traditionally, if a tariff
like this u you know fell, the
government might say, "Okay, well, it
applies to everybody. Everybody can get
their revenue back." We don't think
that's going to be the case. We think
this administration is going to work
hard to retain that tariff revenue,
which will put the burden on companies
to actually go out and and get the
revenue back that they've that they've
already paid. Um so being diligent and
keeping that keeping track of those
expenditures is going to be very
important. This was supposed to be the
time of the year when companies had more
certainty and would actually engage with
plans of acquisitions, mergers,
investment. How much do you see that
stymiade because of the lack of clarity
here?
>> Yeah, there's no question about it. I
mean, we see it all the time. Uh, every
time we think we're going to get some uh
foundational understanding of the of the
trade environment, some something
happens. Uh, court ruling comes, a new
uh tariff measure comes out. I mean
India and Brazil are two examples, but
we have some other tariffs that are
coming down the road as well. There's a
number of 232 national security
investigations ongoing on really
important sectors of the US economy like
critical minerals, pharmaceuticals,
semiconductors,
all of these have implications for
companies supply chain investment. Um,
so I think for understanding where to
put your money as a as a company, where
to invest and and the best timing, I
think it's quite a challenge. Um, and
they still don't have the certainty that
they'd like to see to make those big
long-term investments.
>> Everett, you mentioned the 232
investigations. Do you think that
perhaps some of those investigations
will be delayed until we have a
conclusion on the legal issues around
AIPA? Because if they need to use
different tools, maybe they need to wait
and see if they do need to do that or
not.
>> Absolutely not. I don't see any delay.
And if anything, I see an an
acceleration of those. One of the things
that even the president had kind of
indicated over the weekend or leading
into the weekend after this court case
had been um uh uh dropped on Friday was
that they are going to use this national
security law, this 232 law to expand the
scope of tariffs. Now, what we've seen
with the steel and aluminum tariffs that
are now at 50%, um, just recently there
were 400 petitions from companies that
sought to have their products pulled
into these tariffs and almost all of
those were granted. So, companies were
sitting back uh they hadn't been
affected by the tariffs. This new
inclusion process is a way to bring a
lot of product into uh the tariff regime
and it's being used very aggressively.
So, I would actually expect an
acceleration of the 232s and an
expansion of their scope because if the
AIPA tariffs fall, they're going to want
to have this tariff revenue. They're
going to want to have this back stop.
>> Everett, appreciate your time as always.
Thank you, sir. The former NEC Deputy
Director Everett Eisenste. What did you
make of Secretary Besson's argument?
We're close to a tipping point where we
could have financial instability due to
large and persistent trade deficits.
>> He's trying to figure out how do you
make this an emergency? You don't call
fentanel an emergency and you could see
that legal argument getting shaped.
>> Stocks down, bond yields higher. That's
the price action so far this morning.
Coming up, China Beechbook CEO Leland
Miller as President Xi signals unity
with India and Russia.
[Music]
Four months of gains on the S&P 500, the
longest monthly winning streak of the
year so far. Equities kicking off
September lower by 0.7% on the S&P lower
on the NASDAQ by 0.9 and likewise on the
Russell 2000. Small caps in August up 7%
this morning down by almost one. In a
bond market, 2-year, 10-year, 30-year
bond yields. Big move lower at the front
end of the curve through last month
thanks to a weak payroll report and a
doubbish Fed chair. JP Pal 2-year yields
365 36 this morning higher by three
basis points but the longer end of the
curve will get your attention not just
states side but worldwide 30-year bond
yields getting closer to 5% in the
United States in Japan at record highs
in the UK the highest since 1998. Now,
this is the toxic mix we've talked about
so often. Yields up, currency weaker.
You see that tension, that pain building
in the UK.
>> And you've talked about this, the
emerging markets like dynamic where a
company is hamstrung by its debts at a
time when they cannot grow their
economy. So, how do you get out of it?
Do you make cuts that just pre that just
add to some sort of pain in the economy
that shrink the economy further? Does
that actually gain the confidence of
bond investors? And I will ask this
right now is a great test. Is this
enough from the bond vigilantes to force
discipline on a government? Are we
seeing the tipping points or do we have
to see more pain around the world before
governments make the hard decisions to
make certain cuts and to make certain
select investments? Prove government
>> sterling 13387. We'll come back to that
story in just a moment as we count you
down to the opening bell about 3 hours
away. Let's get you some morning movers,
some single names. Here's Danny
Burgerer. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Nvidia because of its weight
was responsible for 40% of the S&P's
decline on Friday. Its reign of terror
continues today. It is down 1 and a
half%. This would be the fourth
consecutive day of declines. The longest
losing streak since March. The catalyst,
take your pick, is it higher bond
yields? Is it because of its earnings?
Is it because Alibaba is developing a
new chip in China? It's unclear, but
otherwise, Nvidia is sinking lower.
Moving to the upside this morning,
however, is Frontier Airline. This is on
some sellside action after Spirit
Airlines on Friday declared bankruptcy
for a second time. Analysts at Deutsche
Bank pointing out that Frontier is most
likely the to be the biggest beneficiary
of that. Another budget airline. It
overlaps with a lot of spirits route. So
you'll see consumers perhaps moving to
Frontier though shares up 9%. Finally
ending things with Eli Liy this morning.
Yesterday we learned that Nova Nortis
did a real world study of its drug and
found that people with cardiovascular
disease the risk of death of stroke of
heart attack fell 57% versus that of
Lily's offering. Analysts noting that
this could be used for advertising
against Zepbounce. So those shares down
1.6%. John
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate the update.
More from Danny in the next hour on a
raise out this morning. One of our top
stories, the Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson expressing confidence the Supreme
Court will uphold President Trump's
tariffs. Reut is reporting that Besson
is also eyeing another legal methods to
impose the tariffs as a backup plan. Our
second story, President Trump reporting
considering declar declaring a national
housing emergency this fall as the
administration gears up for the midterm
election. Scott Besson saying housing
affordability would be a critical leg of
their platform. And finally, the biggest
story in the bond market this morning.
Longdated UK bond yields climbing to
multi-deade highs as investor confidence
waines in Prime Minister Kama's
government. Yields on 30-year guilts,
climbing to nearly 5.7% as concerns
continue to mount over the country's
budget trajectory.
>> If you want any positive spin on this,
you could say the trajectory hasn't been
the spike upwards that we saw a number
of years ago during the Liz Trust
moment. That it hasn't been as rapid of
a momentum. But I would argue that
actually the slow grind higher in
yields, the slow grind weaker in the
pound is actually more concerning.
because what it signals is not
necessarily some forced sale, but a
gradual and persistent loss of
confidence in the UK's ability to really
get their budget around at a time when
they are facing this question about
their deficit expanding and growth
that's weakening. And that really is the
toxic brew that everyone wants to avoid.
>> I think in addition to that, Lisa, I'm
so pleased you said it, they've lost
control of the messaging. If you follow
the domestic press in the UK over the
past few weeks, I've seen suggestion
after suggestion of new tax hikes in the
United Kingdom, many of those won't even
make the light of day. But the problem
with that is every single day you have a
story like that out there, you lose more
and more confidence. And the problem the
UK's got at the moment is they keep
putting up taxes and a tax base keeps
disappearing. A lot of people are just
leaving a country. And if you keep
floating more and more tax hikes, guess
what people are doing? They're not
investing and they're not going to
remain in the United Kingdom if they've
got money or any ideas to invest in a
business anytime soon.
>> So, how do you do it? And this is really
the quandry that the Star administration
faces. Do they uh cut a lot of the
services around the board? Well, we
tried that. That didn't go so well. How
do they raise revenue? How do they bring
investment back at a time where they
don't have the luxury of progrowth
measures? And this is really interesting
for the United Kingdom, but also at a
time where this is an issue everywhere.
This is happening in France as well in a
massive way when they're proposing cuts
that are so deeply unpopular. Remember
they were going to take away a national
holiday and that turned into a national
uh catastrophe was reversed. So how are
they going to shore up their economy
before they reach that point and that I
think is the big concern.
>> You've got the tax lever and a spending
lever and if you're on the left you keep
reaching for the tax lever and that's
the problem. Secretary Besson has said
this quite a few times. We don't have a
tax problem. We have a spending problem
and they have a spending problem in the
UK and a spending problem in France and
no seemingly ability to do anything
about it or willingness for that matter
both in the UK and France. Now the
France has got an excuse. France can
turn around and say we simply don't have
the numbers in parliament to get this
through. We need help from elsewhere.
The Labour party does not. They have a
massive majority in parliament and can't
make it happen. Yeah, this is the
difficulty right now because ultimately
where do you make cuts and what do you
do to the economy in the short run and
how do you avoid the blame? The tax
lever isn't going to work and we already
know that because we've seen the tax
base get uh dissipated around the world.
But the spending lever is a real
question mark when you have a
decelerating economy. How much pain are
you willing to tolerate and then what
does the Bank of England do with that?
And this is going to be a case model
maybe for other nations around the
world.
>> The highest since 1998. It's not pretty
in the UK and to Lisa's point, it's not
pretty elsewhere either. Let's turn to
geopolitics. Chinese President Xi
Jinping, the Russian leader Vladimir
Putin, and Indian PM Narendra Modi
presenting a united front at China's
annual security summit. Joining us now
is Bloomberg's Minman Lo. Minman,
welcome to the program. Just walk us
through what's been happening over the
past day or so.
Yeah, today uh Putin and C had a meeting
and it was one that came with a lot of
breakthroughs because the big uh deal
that was signed was between the Gasprom
which is Russia's stateowned company and
China agreeing to build this power of
Siberia 2 pipeline which would help to
divert a lot of the gas pipeline sales
to Europe Europe to China instead and
that would help the company recoup about
30% of those uh gas pipeline uh that was
diverted that was you that used to be
sold to Europe to China. So and a very
important breakthrough because this was
something that has been under discussion
for many many years. Presidency and
China have been reluctant to sign onto
the deal because they didn't see it as
urgent to continue to step up gas
purchases from Russia. They didn't want
to over rely on Russia as well. And this
deal coming as President Trump has been
threatening more tariffs on China if it
continues to buy Russian oil.
Interestingly, we see the same thing
with Modi as well. uh Modi's uh India's
largest state-owned company oil company
saying it will continue to buy every
single drop of Russian oil available as
long as it remains economical really a
slap in the face for President Trump and
perhaps showing that Trump's additional
tariffs to punish India is in some ways
backfiring
>> Mman with the Lotus Minman thank you
appreciate it Minman low there of
Bloomberg the kind of imagery that would
irk this white house big time these
three leaders in one room
>> it is the imagery though that might
speak louder than any kind of real
relationship. And that is the ultimate
question. How close can these ties get.
I will say the idea of Putin and Xi
being the ultimate statesman is really
quite ironic. It's
>> quite something, right? Absolutely.
>> Okay, let's extend some of this with
Leland Miller, the CEO of China Beige.
Leland joins us now for more. Leland,
welcome to the program. Is China and
President Xi from an economic standpoint
operating from a position of strength?
I wouldn't call it a position of
strength, but it's getting stronger
considering that a lot of countries are
backing away from their close
relationships with the United States. I
mean, if you look what's happening with
India right now, India doesn't want to
be looking around the room and see China
on the left and Pakistan on the right
and Bellarus across the room. I mean, it
would rather be in a group of of uh you
know, of countries with the United
States and others and and uh and and
strengthening trade relations there. But
it will push back if it thinks it's
being pushed into a quarter. And so
we're seeing a situation where China is
getting is becoming an attractive option
because it's not the United States right
now.
>> It seems like Russia and China have a
very clear relationship. China is almost
the owner or Russia is the vassal state
of China because it is so dependent on
its revenues. The relationship between
India and China is much more
complicated. How do you see that
evolving? How close can that get given
how incredibly contentious the
relationship has been for decades?
Yeah, look, you know, India considers
itself a non-aligned country and a lot
of countries do in Southeast Asia too
that that have that have, you know, said
they're not going to be a US ally
directly or a Chinese ally. They're
going to they're going to manage
relations with both. I mean, you got got
Indonesia, you've got Vietnam, you got a
lot of other countries, but within that
non-alignment uh label, there have been
tightening relationships uh for years
and years. The United States, it's been
geopolitical, it's been economic, it's
been trade. These things have been very
advantageous to to US policy goals,
trade and foreign policy and even
military in the Pacific region. And if
if all of our policy ends up
backtracking and become one big question
about sort of fair trade, but it doesn't
have any uh you know look at the
geopolitical side instead and how are
these things balancing out? Then then
we're going to be we're going to wake up
5 years from now. going to realize that
we've just undid 20 years of of
diplomacy uh that have sort of pushed
back against the China world. It's it's
a problem. How much are you already
seeing some of these new alliances in
the trade data? I mean, we've seen, for
example, Chinese exports that have
decreased substantially to the United
States, but that have increased
substantially to the rest of the world.
Do you see that along alliances or is
this just trans shipments? the idea of
finding the weakest node that they can
get products in that can eventually get
to the United States.
>> Yeah, it's it's not alliances, but it's
not all trans shipment either. It's it's
essentially China shoving its exports
down other countries throats. And you
know, United States has, you know, you
can see it in our China Beigebook data.
You could see it in other trade data. Uh
you know, the the direct shipments in
China, the United States have been going
down, but China has been just unloading
its exports in particular into Southeast
Asia because they can't they they can't
push back. they can't push back
geopolitically, you know, they can't
compete with Chinese lower prices that
are sort of dumping their over capacity
into into Southeast Asia. So, it's it's
not about tightening economic block. If
anything, it's the opposite. But it
means that in a in a world in which
China is trying to find places to dump
its exports, you know, it's picking on
its weaker neighbors and it's being very
successful right now.
>> Leon, can we just stand that point?
China's over capacity. We had a guest on
the program about 40 minutes ago making
the argument that China was going to
address that. Do you see any sign of
that whatsoever?
>> You know, it's one of these things that
that people people read the they you
know, they read what the government's
plans are and they say, "Oh, well, the
government must be willing to address
this." You know, there it's it's uh you
know, they're going to spur, you know,
have more consumption. They're going to
have more stimulus. They're going to
have, you know, uh they're going to
combat over capacity. Finally, the model
doesn't allow them for them for them to
do this very easily. So look, if it was
a priority in the short term, yes, I
think that they're doing little things,
this anti-involution campaign, they're
they they're trying to weed out some of
this price competition that comes from,
you know, every provincial government in
China subsidizing the same stuff leading
to over supply, leading to exported, you
know, o exported over supply and this
over capacity problem. So yes, in the
short term they're going to deal with it
on a micro level. But the economic model
that China has, which is stimulus to the
supply side and not to the demand side,
you know, it does not allow for them to
shift things away. They're going to have
more over capacity and they're just
going to have to find places to bury it
uh until someone force or someone or
some block forces them to to do
otherwise.
>> Leland, just why are they married to
that particular model? What would it
take to make them change their mind?
Well, for I think it's what Xiinping and
com and and and and Chinese communist
leaders have have thought for a long
time. What they want to do is they want
to produce more. They want to build up
their industrial base and and that's
fine and that's laudable from their
perspective. But what it h has happened
is it's all the all the the stimulus the
entire model is based on on uh on on
spurring uh more production and and more
exports and they've been very explicit
about that in the last couple of years
in particular. So as long as you're
trying to produce more, produce more,
produce more, but you have very weak
domestic demand and you're doing
absolutely nothing structurally in order
to empower consumers or households or
the private sector to become more
consumers back home. What you're doing
is you're having a a model that's
completely reliant on production. And
that's what the model is right now. It's
why China is very vulnerable um but but
also not a very good trade partner for
for others who who want them to import
war.
>> And why the US has been so frustrated
over the last decade or so. Leland,
appreciate your time. Leland Miller
there, the China Beige Book CEO, some
push back to what we heard from Jay
Pilowski early this morning
>> saying that it would be very hard for
them to push back on this model of over
capacity and that essentially they're
making noise as though they can, but
ultimately they would have to upend
their entire economy in a way that there
doesn't seem to be the uh the impetus to
do so.
>> It's amazing what's happened so far this
year. Tariffs have gone up big time.
Trade has broken down between the US and
China. And yet still that budget
surplus, that trade surplus rather in
Japan is bigger and not smaller with the
rest of the world.
>> Well, that really is the issue, right?
Is this going to cause some sort of
unrest in Southeast Asia? How do they
fight back? And then what is the US's
role? Is the US truly stepping away from
being any kind of safeguard or any kind
of alliance or allied partner? And that
I think is what a lot of people are
grappling with.
>> If you are just tuning in, welcome to
the program. Bond yields higher across
the curve this morning. Equities lower.
Stocks are down by three quarters of 1%
on the S&P 500. That's the price action.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us, here's
Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. A plane carrying European
Commission President Ursula Vanderion
was affected by GPS jamming as it landed
in Bulgaria. According to authorities,
the GPS signal was neutralized as the
chartered plane approached Plavde
airport, forcing air traffic control to
use alternative navigation tools.
Bulgarian authorities blamed Russia for
the incident. Meanwhile, gold prices
climbed to record highs as investors add
exposure to the precious metal in
anticipate in anticipation of rate cuts
from the Fed. Gold has risen more than
30% so far this year, as you can see
there, making it one of the best
performing major commodities. Traders
are looking ahead to Friday's jobs print
for further signs of rate cuts, which
add to gold's value as it doesn't pay
interest. And Nestle has abruptly
dismissed its CEO, Laurent F. An
investigation found he had an
undisclosed romantic relationship with a
direct subordinate, of course, violating
the company's code of conduct. Fretz
will not receive an exit package and
he'll be replaced by Phipe Nvertil who
had overseen the company's Nespresso
coffee brand. That's Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes time in the next hour.
Up next on the program, global bond
yields grinding higher.
>> The narrative that somehow something had
dramatically changed about the behavior
of the dollar. It's really too early.
People point to the correlation between
what's happening with long-term bond
yields and the strength of the dollar
and saying, "Well, that's changed and
therefore something has changed
dramatically." That conversation up next
with Sonia Martin of DZ Bank live from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[Music]
It's a tough start to September.
Equities down, bonds down, yields up.
We're down by 7/10 of 1% on the S&P 500.
Underperformance on the Russell where
there has been some outperformance more
recently. We're down by 1% so far this
morning on the Russell 2000. If you
switch up the board and get to the bond
market, check out the long end of the
curve. Yields higher on 30s by five
basis points on 10 by six. 30-year bond
yields getting closer and closer to 5%.
so far this morning. And as Sylvanas
this morning, it's global bond yields
grinding higher.
The narrative that somehow something has
dramatically changed about the behavior
of the dollar, it's really too early.
People point to the correlation between
what's happening with long-term bond
yields and the strength of the dollar
and saying, "Well, that's changed and
therefore something has changed
dramatically." That's not the case. If
you take a long enough period, the
relationship between the dollar and
borrowing costs, it can move in
different ways. So, there's nothing
unprecedented, but of course, these are
still early days. So, here's the latest
this morning. 30-year bond yields around
the world climbing to fresh multi-deade
highs in France, the UK, and Japan.
Joining us now to discuss is Sonia
Martin, the head of FX and monetary
policy at DC Bank. Sonia, welcome to the
program. This move we're seeing at the
long end of the curve. I just want your
initial reaction to that both in what's
happening in the UK and France in
Europe, but also here in America.
>> Well, I think in the UK it's pretty
obvious and we have some major fiscal
concerns. I mean, Kier Star has just
publicly humiliated his chancellor and
there's really a question of how long
Rachel Reeves can hold on to her job. So
that's triggered a new wave of fears and
I think we're still in a way witnessing
the after effects of the trust budget a
couple years ago when people got totally
spooked about you know the prospects for
the UK bond market and I think in a in a
in a way that's still hurting. So you
can see yields moving higher sharply.
You just mentioned the 30-year in
particular. Um and we have seen fiscal
concerns pretty much across the board.
France obviously with the uh you know
the vote coming up next week there's a
lot of uncertainty here and it's just
pulled everything up in its wake I think
>> Sonia is the UK idiosyncratic or is this
doom loop really showing signs of
beginning across the developed markets
you pointed to some of the other
countries that are facing similar
dynamics with increasing bond yields at
the long end and just pressure on the
collective currency but do you see it
being somewhat different than the
dynamic playing out in England in
Britain? Yes, I I I think we really have
to be careful to differentiate here. I
mean there is a structural factor at
play which is obviously that we have
seen you know deficits rising and that
has triggered some concerns that are
justified and I will buy that but we
then have to differentiate what's
happening and in the UK in particular I
think what's happening here the market
sort of starting to shows you know I
wouldn't say panic but there clearly
some nervos nervousness in the market
but when you look at it the DMO has
already acknowledged the lack of demand
for the for the ultra long end of the
curve there'll be less issuance there
the Bank of England can sort of shift
around its uh guild sales as well. And
and let's not forget one thing. Even if
yields at the long end rise very quickly
right now, this does not impact the
interest payments of the UK government
on its existing debt. I mean, this
doesn't translate right away into higher
spending on interest rates. And that's
just something I think people need to be
aware of. Um so I think it's a little
bit overdone at the moment. I don't
know. Don't expect this to turn into an
absolute round. No,
>> hold on a second. Are you saying, Sonia,
that the 30-year bond can't be the
disciplinar that a lot of people thought
that it was? That this cannot be the
bond vigilante slice of the market to
come back with pitchforks and tell
governments around the world, cut your
deficits, that it won't act as that type
of measure anymore. Is that your point?
>> Well, I wouldn't No, no, I would not go
as far as to say that. I I mean, it it
is it is a warning sign. I will say that
it is a warning sign and we have seen
governments react to this sort of
warning signal. Donald Trump himself
clearly has reacted to that sort of
warning sign before and we've seen the
same thing in the UK. It is a warning
sign. I'm just saying we have to be
careful not to conclude right away that
if the bond yield rises that
automatically translates directly into
much much higher spending on interest
payments. That effect will come in the
long run obviously if interest rates
remain high but it's not you know it
doesn't happen one day to the next. So I
think that's just something we need to
be a little bit careful of not to mix
signals here.
>> Sonia, it can tighten financial
conditions though. Maybe it's too early
to have this conversation. But I'm
thinking ahead a few steps down the
road, maybe into 2026. Remember the ECP
introduced the transmission protection
instrument. And I just wonder if other
central banks might look at the
situation and say, "Look, we're cutting
interest rates, but financial conditions
aren't getting easier. Long bond yields
are still climbing." Do you see central
banks, either the Fed or others,
thinking about stepping in here?
Well, I mean, when you mention the Fed,
I mean, that's quite possibly a
discussion that we're going to be having
next year. I mean, the Fed, uh, you
know, is is going to be morphing
increasing into a sort of a very
doubbish, uh, dovish institution with
everything that's happening on the
board. And so, I do fully expect a
discussion to come up in the US next
year about the potential for the Fed um,
to to start, you know, buying bonds
again. I don't think there's any
fundamental justification for this and I
think it would be very dangerous to do
this unless there is a justification for
these purchases but I think a discussion
about this is likely to happen in the US
next year definitely
>> Sonia appreciate your time as always son
Martin there of DC bank on the latest
situation in the global bond market and
with central banks too this from Peter
cheer over the weekend from academy Lisa
I'm sure you saw the same thing people
aren't thinking out of the box enough
and may well be underestimating this
administration on their plans for bond
yields Yeah, ultimately we could have
yield curve control. We could have
shifts in terms of where issuance is
happening. We already are seeing that on
the margins. But this really underscores
why we're seeing such a bidden to gold,
right? Ultimately, you've got
governments around the world that are
facing off with higher costs at the long
end as they try to cut yields at the
short end. It turns out moni monetary
policy makers don't have control over
everything. So what do you do? You start
to manipulate it. Sort of the financial
engineering that has really supported
the economy for so long. What do you end
up with? the depreciation of of
developed market currencies. The reason
why people are looking at gold at record
highs today.
>> Chairman Pal contributed to that as
well, showing a greater tolerance for
above target inflation. That's been
problematic for a lot of people.
>> There's been a feeling that the pain
that comes with any kind of recession is
worse than just a little bit more
inflation and a little bit more. And if
you look at 5year 5-year break even
rates, they're creeping higher.
>> Gold 3485.
Coming up in the next hour, here's the
lineup for you. Phil Orlando of
Federated, Henry Drae of Vader Partners,
plus Matt Mley of Militback and Matt
Hornback of Morgan Stanley. The second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up next,
[Music]
you have a situation where the Fed is
clearly worried about the growth side of
their mandate. The growth story just
isn't that great. The uptick to 2.9% on
the core PCE deflator is a little
concerning.
>> Fed independence definitely affects the
inflation narrative as well.
>> If the Fed does cut rates by 25 base
points in September, it's still not
going to necessarily mean a sequence of
rate cuts.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equities
lower to kick off the month of
September. We're down on the S&P on the
NASDAQ, the Russell. The S&P 500
negative by 3/4 of 1%. The epicenter for
the pain worldwide. It's in the bond
market at the long end of the curve.
Here's twos and 30s. Yields high by five
basis points getting closer to 5% 49769
on 30s. the highest yield since 98 in
the UK since ever in Japan and in France
the highest since 2011. The week ahead
to set the tone for financial markets
worldwide. A lot of labor market data
states side including ADP in just 24
hours time and payrolls coming up on
Friday. You know, this is a very
complicated week given the political
consequences of Washington coming back,
the tariffs and what happened there and
then of course what happens in markets,
the bond market response to the jobs
data. What is the bigger risk that the
jobs data comes in better than expected
or worse than expected? How high is the
bar for the Fed not to cut rates later
this month? And how much is the hope and
prayer of those rate cuts, regardless of
the economic backdrop, what's supporting
this market? And that I think is a real
question heading into what typically is
a pretty volatile month for stocks.
>> Mike Apen and Morgan Stanley's trying to
answer that question going into payrolls
for you. September cut is not a
certainty. Payrolls of 225 in August.
Another clear acceleration in tariff
related inflation could keep them on
hold.
>> This is a highly political question
especially because Stephen Myron might
actually be on the board by by uh the
September meeting by September 17th.
That is the goal. And you on Thursday
you do see that myin confirmation
hearing. Do they fast ball that
fasttrack that to get that uh into
practice? There's just a real question
here about a reaction function at a time
where inflation is starting to creep
higher in terms of expectations and in
terms of what the bond market is pricing
in globally. That is a real question.
How much is that sty potential returns
not only in the bond market but also in
equities?
>> I got excited about ADP. 48 hours away
for ADP. But for the first time in a
long time, maybe ever we're talking
about an ADP number on par with
payrolls. more attention being paid to
that data point.
>> Yeah. On par or maybe even at some point
superior because this will be the first
payrolls report coming after the firing
of the Bureau of Labor Statistics head
because of the revisions that are bigger
than expected but also have been
traditionally something that we have
seen during periods of disruption. So,
how does the government, how does
Trump's administration react to whatever
number we get at a time where it already
has been highly politicized and a lot of
people are wondering not only about
collection rates, but also just about
how things are manipulated. I don't I
don't know that I buy that. I got to be
honest. I don't think that things are
being manipulated. I think that there
are too many staff people in place. I
just think the accuracy is more a
question.
>> The fact that's a question though,
Bremo, that's a problem.
>> 100%.
>> Going into a big week for labor market
data. Big hour coming up. will catch up
with Philando of Federated Global
Investment as we kick off a big month
for markets. Henry of Trade of Vader
Partners as President Trump's tariffs
bump into legal issues and Matt Hornback
of Morgan Stanley as gold hits another
all-time high. We begin this hour with
stocks on a fourmonth winning streak
coming into September. Philando, the
chief equity market strategist at
Federated Global Investment, writing the
following. We expect the Fed to cut
interest rates by a quarter point at
both his September and December meetings
this year, which should boost stocks
towards our 7,500 target next year for
the S&P 500. Phil joins us now for more.
Phil, good morning.
>> John, thank you very much for having me
back.
>> Thank you for being here, sir. Let's
talk about the month ahead. Payrolls
this week, inflation next week, and then
the big Federal Reserve meeting. How are
things shaping up for you and a team?
So, we've had this massive 35% rally off
the liberation day bottom going into uh
I guess the week before Jackson Hole. Uh
and then uh the market traded off about
4% or so because the market didn't
really understand or appreciate what
sort of a tone would Powell take at the
meeting. Now, the rally we've seen over
the course of the last week or so has
been that Powell took the right tone
that that the Fed is thinking about
easing. But as as we get back to, you
know, the day after Labor Day,
everyone's back from vacation. Now the
the cold dose of reality sets in. All
right, what's the next set of inflation
data going to look like? What is the
labor market data this week? And then
you've got all the noise surrounding the
Fed and tariffs and uh does Miran uh
does he get seated this week? So at this
point that dose of reality we think uh
given the fact that we've turned the
calendar to September there there could
be some chop here looking out going into
the September 17th meeting.
>> Well let's touch on a potential source
of tension let's say the move we saw in
the last month to see cyclicals
outperform to see the airlines up double
digits the home builders up double
digits to see the Russell or the small
caps up by 7%. At a time where the
chairman is increasingly worried about a
cyclical downturn does that one stack up
for you? So, we love small caps, just
full disclosure here. And the the key
reason for that is we believe lower
interest rates. Not only do we think
we've got two quarter point cuts this
year, we think we've got another four
quarter point cuts over the course of
next year. The funds rate by the end of
calendar 26. We think the upper band is
going to be at 3%. If we're right, that
suggests that you've got an excellent
backdrop for small cap stocks as well as
those consumer cyclical areas. So that's
our longer term view, but there's a lot
of noise and nonsense that we're going
to have to parse through over the course
of the next several weeks
>> given the fact that this would be the
deepest rate cutting cycle outside of a
recession ever and data going back to
the 1980s. I mean, this is something
that a lot of people have pointed to. So
do you see these cuts coming
irrespective of whatever economic data
that we get? In other words, you can
question the politics of the moment, but
what this market seems to be pricing in
is rate cuts for the sake of rate cuts
that juice growth and possibly
inflation.
regardless of the economic data.
>> Great point, Lisa. We're looking at that
dual mandate. We're looking at the data
and and so while there is some concern
about inflation, we're focused on the
labor market here. What's happened in
the labor market over the last three uh
three months, the average non-farm
payrolls 35,000. The first four months
of this year, that number was up around
125,000. All of last year, that number
was 168,000. So, the labor market is
materially slowing. This coming Friday,
we're going to hit the August non-farm
payroll report. The August report
historically is the wonkiest report of
the year. Uh there's going to be a lot
of noise. You know, you've got summer
vacations in and out. Uh companies uh
manufacturing facilities take downtime
uh in terms of uh furlowing temporarily
workers and whatever. And then next
week, I think it's next Tuesday, uh
we're going to get the annual uh payroll
revisions. Last year that revision was
down 800,000 jobs. We think the revision
this year could be down another 5 or
600,000. So we we'd be focused more on
the labor market and the deterioration
there as opposed to what's going on with
inflation.
>> If inflation is higher though and you do
see that sort of crimping in the labor
market, the sort of uh loosening or in
the labor I should say uh this issue of
people not being able to get jobs. Then
why would small caps rally which are
typically hinged to growth when that's a
stagflationary backdrop?
>> So we we think that that growth
ultimately over the course of next year
is going to improve. Let me throw this
data point out. Our macro policy
committee at federated our GDP forecast
for next year is 2.8%. The blue chip
consensus is 1.4%. Within the the the
blue chip consensus, the highest
estimate on the street is 2%. So why are
we at 28? One of the things we're
focused on is the fact that we are
looking for a significant improvement uh
in economic activity coming in corporate
capex. Uh one of the key provisions in
the one big beautiful bill was 100%
expensing. So you look at productivity
growth in the first quarter of this year
and it was negative by 2%. It's never
negative. What we think was happening is
a lot of companies were holding back
their capex plan saying we're going to
wait to see what's in this piece of
legislation.
>> Okay. But that was also contingent on
some clarity around tariffs. Don't some
of those plans get withdrawn now that
there's a real question mark around how
much the tariffs go into place?
>> Well, the the tariff question is is an
open question at this point. And so I I
I think legislatively we've got that,
but I think this is ultimately going to
be decided by uh the courts,
particularly the Supreme Court in terms
of the the legality of the tariffs.
>> And despite that, you're clearly looking
for a reaceleration in growth through
the next year. And arguably the market's
picking up on that in the last month. Do
you think what's happening at the long
end of the yield curve is a reflection
of a better growth profile in our future
or do you think it could become a
constraint for risk assets?
>> So the way we're looking at the yield
curve is is you're probably going to see
a further steepening lower interest
rates at the low end, higher interest
rates at the high end. But as we look
out over the course of the next 18
months or so, we think the the benchmark
10-year Treasury yield could be working
down towards the 4% level, which is
supportive, we think, of consumer
cyclicals and smaller cap stocks.
>> What's helping tens fall? What do you
think delivers that outcome?
>> Well, I I I think the reality that
inflation is not going to be as
significant a problem as some
individuals are pricing in now. We think
that again as we're looking at this
Phillips curve trade-off, the thing that
we'd be focused on is the weakness in
the labor market. Yes, there's been a
little bit of a tick up in inflation, no
question, but we're down off of a
41-year high to a 4-year low. There's
been a little bit of a tick up, but we
don't think we're going back to, you
know, a 9% CPI level over the next
couple years.
>> So, basically, the steepening guilt
curve is just bond traders getting yippy
and that they will stop being so yippy
and everybody will come back and it will
just go back to something that seems
more stable. that things will calm down
over the course of the next couple of
months.
>> Some of the chief strategists from the
White House.
>> Well, that's sort of what it seems like.
I mean, it it's sort of these momentary
freakouts by bond traders that come back
to work and think, "Oh my goodness,
these headlines are concerning. This is
it. This is the big moment." And then
they get kind of cowed into reality.
>> They've been lying on a beach for a
month and and today's the reality.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Something unsettling though about the
very long end of the curve. the fact
that the DMO in the UK for instance has
to come out and basically say not much
appetite for the long end of the yield
curve seeing a similar thing play out in
the US likewise in Japan France has got
its own problems I get that but they all
contribute to the same thing a
reluctance for a lot of investors to buy
the long end
>> how do you invest in the programs of a
government that can't even stay together
for 6 months and that is the conundrum
that a lot of people have for European
for developed market uh governments this
This is really the ultimate question.
Are developed markets losing their clout
on the global bond market stage and how
much has that crimp their ability to
support their budgets that they've been
having for the past 30 years?
>> We mentioned this just last week going
into the weekend, the conversion of EM
and DM dynamics over the past 12 months.
Pretty notable.
>> Yeah, it was a great point that you made
and this was really what ultimately is
going to uh come to to fruition here.
How much are countries losing the
ability to gain control of the narrative
at a time where it's kind of getting
away from them from both the currency
perspective and the bond market
perspective?
>> Bonds down, yields up by about five
basis points. State side the 30-year at
about 498. Philando Federated. Phil,
good to see you, sir. Appreciate it.
Thanks for dropping by. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara Arnard.
Hey yra.
>> Hi, John. Clara is looking to raise as
much as $1.27 27 billion in its highly
anticipated US IPO. It plans to sell
34.3 million shares in the IPO with the
price expected to be between 35 and $37
per share. The buy now pay later firm
will trade on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker KL A.
Meanwhile, it's an underwhelming start
for Tesla in India with just over 600
orders since its sales launch under two
months ago. Heavy import tariffs have
pushed the cost of Tesla's entry-level
model above 6 million rupees, which is
about $68,000. That's much higher than
the 2.2 million rupee price tag of most
other EVs in the country. And we are on
to the round of 16 in the 2025 US Open
after number 23 seated Naomi Osaka took
down the third ranked Cocoa Golf in
straight sets. This marks Osaka's first
quarter finals since 2021. On the men's
side, favorites like Yannik Center,
Carlos Alcarad, and Novak, Djokovic all
advance to the next round with ease.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Appreciate the
update. More from Yihara in about 30
minutes time. Up next on the program, a
tariff roadblock.
>> We think we're going to win at the
Supreme Court. We are close to a tipping
point where we could have financial
instability due to these large and
persistent trade deficits. So we are
trying to head off a crisis.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Henred Trees of Vader Partners live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Had a really decent run over the past
four months. Four months of gains on the
S&P 500 with much more of a cyclical
tilt through the month of August. Waking
up in September though, reality check
from the bond market. Stocks down by
7/10 of 1% on the S&P on a Russell by 1
percentage point. And here's your
reality check. Slap round a face from
fixed income worldwide. 30-year bond
yields up by five basis points. 498 this
morning on 30s. Highest since 98 in the
UK, highest on record in Japan, highest
since 2011 in France.
>> The why is interesting here. How much is
this a fiscal concern issue? the
question of how sustainable a lot of the
budgets are around the world. How much
is this an inflation issue and how much
is this just a protest issue? The bon
vigilantes with pitchforks and
ultimately that will drive what the
meaning of this is. You ask Philando a
great question. Is this yield curve
increasing or widening? A sign that
growth is going to accelerate or a sign
that inflation is going to get out of
control and he's saying ah it'll
normalize. Right? But that's really the
key question at a time where it could be
viewed positively or it could be viewed
very negatively.
>> I think what a lot of people find
unsettling, myself included, is the loss
of confidence in the long end of the
yield curve. And we've seen bout after
bout of that through the year so far.
And you're not just seeing in the United
States. That's problematic. You're
seeing it across DM. And I'm not sure
there's much that governments in the UK
and France at the moment seem to be able
to do about it. We know what the recipe
is. We know what the to-do list is. They
just don't seem to be have the ability
to actually follow through anytime soon.
>> The bond market is almost like a gauge
of the dissolution of the global world
order. And there's been this feeling
that governments in democracies around
the world can't bring the polls
together. And you've seen that in
France, you've seen that in the US,
you've seen that in the UK. You cannot
bring the two very polarized sides of
the sides of the political spectrum
together. So what do you get? A bomb
market that's not having confidence 30
years out that that government is going
to have the ability or willingness to
actually pay back their debts. And that
is what you're seeing increasingly
priced into bond markets.
>> Wouldn't call it a buyer strike just
yet. Wouldn't go that far, but you've
seen signs of it, that's for sure, for
the year so far. Under Savage this
morning, a tariff roadblock.
>> We think we're going to win at the
Supreme Court. We are close to a tipping
point where we could have financial
instability due to these large and
persistent trade deficits. So, we are
trying to head off a crisis.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. More
uncertainty over the future of Trump's
global tariffs after a federal appeals
court ruled most of the levies are
illegal. The tariffs are allowed to stay
in place while the case plays out. With
the latest, here's Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall. Morning, Tyler.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. So, these
are the tariffs that were invoked under
IEPA, the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act. And the court ruled
that President Trump overstepped his
authority here because under AIPA, the
president had to declare a national
emergency that the administration felt
warranted a tariff response. So in the
case of the so-called reciprocal
tariffs, the president cited persistent
global trade imbalances. And in the case
of those tariffs against ma Mexico,
Canada, and in part China, the president
cited concerns around the border and
fentanyl. And I would expect these to be
the arguments that the White House
really highlights in the coming days as
they prepare to likely take this to the
Supreme Court. Now, I think it's worth
mentioning that courts have historically
been pretty differential to a
president's ability to declare a
national emergency, but we have never
seen a White House invoke AIPA in order
to impose tariffs and let alone them be
this wide ranging. So, this really does
appear to be perhaps some uncharted
territory. Now, as you mentioned, these
tariffs are allowed to remain in effect
while this works its way through the
court system. And I don't need to tell
you that trillions of dollars are tied
up in the decision. In fact, if the
Supreme Court were to uphold it, the
Committee for a Responsible Federal
Budget estimates that 71%
of projected tariff revenue for this
year would all but vanish. Now, with
that said, John, of course, we're not
expecting tariffs or the revenues that
come with them to really go away. A
person familiar tells us here at
Bloomberg News that administration
officials are already preparing other
federal authorities to enact tariffs
even as they plan to appeal this
decision. That could mean everything
from more section 232 investigations or
the Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant
saying over the weekend they're looking
into section 338 under the Smoot Holly
Act.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. This is
why we've been asking a question on this
program. If this was struck down, would
it be bond positive or bond negative
given how much money has been raised?
>> Yeah, given the fact that that wouldn't
be plugging the gap in the federal
budget deficit that a lot of people were
expecting and people are recognizing
that a little bit more this morning than
some of the other potential
consequences.
>> Do you think just on the margins this is
contributing to what we're seeing in
America in the bond market this morning?
You know, I sure I mean maybe you could
see that as as seeing uh maybe that
that's the case, but it's not being led
by the United States and that's the one
caveat because that's not you're not
seeing the extremes in the US bond
market that you are in the UK and in
Europe. So, while I'd like to say yes,
that fits a neat narrative. I can say I
really cannot explain it fully.
>> It's a global bond market move, that's
for sure. To weigh in on some of this,
Henrietta Trees, the director of
economic policy research at Vader
Partners joins us now for more.
Henrietta, welcome. A lot of people just
assume this will arrive at the Supreme
Court and this administration assumes
that ultimately the Supreme Court will
side with them. Is that see how you see
things playing out?
>> It would require a whole lot of fiscal
dominance and migrating that fiscal
dominance strategy away from the Fed and
onto the Supreme Court. Uh not that he
can't do both at the same time, but the
reality of this situation is that the
Court of International Trade found
unanimously that these tariffs are
unconstitutional and illegal. The Court
of Appeals found the same thing on
Friday night. The Supreme Court
generally would not even take up this
case. This is obviously political
pressure coming from the administration
trying to insert itself into the Supreme
Court of the United States. And while
Besset might be optimistic that they're
going to prevail, we hosted a conference
call with international trade lawyers
who've argued in front of the Supreme
Court on Saturday for clients which came
out to 65% odds that the
administration's going to lose this
case. So, as Tyler points out, I mean,
prepare to migrate to sectoral tariffs.
uh expect much more of them on 232 33 uh
301 uh across the board.
>> So let's talk about what that would mean
in terms of revenues. You said that even
with those sectoral tariffs, if you took
away the tariffs implemented under AIPA,
that would reduce re revenue collection
to the US Treasury by 2 to3 trillion at
least. Can you sort of uh expand that
out to give a sense of how much this
kind of sends Congress back to the
drawing board when it comes to reducing
the federal b budget deficit?
>> Yeah, and I you know I heard your last
commentary about whether or not the bond
markets are paying attention to this. In
my experience, they absolutely are. I
was in a lunch room in in New York with
30 investors, 20 investors just this
time last week and it was really clear
that repealing these tariffs is going to
be a massive problem for the bond
market. And so you're really going to
have a tale of two responses with the
market. one for the bond market and the
other for you know the retailers who are
you know dire impacted by these tariffs
whether it's you know 25% on India for
the reciprocal rate plus 25% for their
purchase of Russian oil and gas um
whether it is the 50% tariffs on Brazil
I mean these are all exhaustive and
imposed directly on nations that cannot
be replaced quickly with 232s or
sectoral tariffs um just think of India
Vietnam Malaysia Asia, the Philippines,
those nations have a 20% 19% AIPA tire
rate, but then they also have a 40% AIPA
tire rate freight. That's everything
coming in that you're buying at Walmart.
So, it's a huge boon for those names.
But the bond market that's still
struggling with the fact that earlier
this year, the Republican conference
passed the most expensive tax bill in US
history. And we did not pay for it. We
cut 12 million people off of Medicaid,
but that's not enough. We need a lot
more revenue. And the tariff revenue is
what's keeping the bond market together.
So stripping AIPA tariffs while
beneficial to Walmart is going to be a
disaster for the bond market. I think
that's what people are pricing in right
now as they come to grips with the fact
that the president could lose this
authority at the Supreme Court by the
end of the year.
>> Henri John pointed out that earlier this
year when some of these tariffs were
first implemented, it was considered a
negative for bond markets and now the
removal of said tariffs is considered a
negative for bond markets. What about
the argument that the reduction of these
tariffs will cause an increase in
growth, an increase in trade that will
foster an increase in tax revenues just
by virtue of how much money companies
and individuals are making?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, it's wild.
It's it's unbelievable to watch the
market correct 12% on Liberation Day and
then respond negatively when the tires
start to come off. It's because we
started baking in this idea that just
because inflation hasn't hit yet and
just because we're only down 116,000
manufacturing jobs and job growth is
stagnant, these tariffs are somehow a
good thing. It's it's completely
counterintuitive. There's going to be a
lot to shake out in the market. It is
highly political and that's what we're
dealing with.
>> Henry, I appreciate your take. Henry
there of VA partners, one common theme,
policy uncertainty both in April and
here again coming into September. Well,
I just wonder how much this really uh
supports or rejects the bullcase
scenario that Stuart Kaiser put out over
the weekend where he was talking about,
well, companies are finally going to
have the confidence to implement all of
their spending plans. Well, can they
have that confidence? Is there more
clarity? I mean, maybe there's more
clarity than on April 2nd, but do we
really have a sense of what the
structure of tariffs will be? It seems
like that might be a real question.
>> What did he call it? The sneaky bull
case.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's
>> the sneaky bull case the year end. Is it
still sneaky or is it now getting sleepy
and pushing to the side?
>> It's getting sleepier.
>> Yeah, put it that way.
>> I don't know if that works.
>> Big move in the last month. Small caps
up 7%. In just a moment, we'll catch up
with Matt Mley of Militback following
the best month for small caps so far
this year. Plus, Danny Burgerer with
your morning movers. We'll catch up with
Danny as new data reportedly shows fewer
Amazon Prime signups despite expanded
sales. That stock is down by 1.4%. From
New York, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Let's check out some moves. Early days,
I know early in the month, but this is
how we're kicking off September.
Equities down across the board by 3/4 of
1% on the S&P. Outperformance for the
small caps in August. Underperformance
this morning, up by 7% last month, down
1% so far today. In the bond market,
2-year, 10-year, and 30-year bond yields
higher by five basis points on 10 and
30s. The 30-year bond yield inching
closer to 5%. 49748.
Worth repeating once again. It's not
just a move here states side. It's a
move worldwide. You're seeing it in the
UK, in France, in Japan. But a move I
wanted to pick out was what was
happening with gold. The takeaway from
Chairman Pal is that Chairman Pal is
much more sensitive to what is happening
with the labor market. Much less
sensitive to what's happening with
inflation. And I think there's another
way to frame the second point. More
tolerant of above target inflation is a
takeaway of a lot of people right now.
And that speaks to the 5% move we had in
gold just last month.
>> What is the haven trade if you can't
count on stable inflation and a fiscal
policy that is just as dependable as
it's always been in the United States?
You've seen gold increasing as an
allocation for uh sovereign wealth funds
around the world because of this
question. Gold reaching all-time highs,
more than 3,500 as people look to that
alternative and finding it in the
precious metal.
>> I think it's up 30% so far this year,
which is just absolutely remarkable. Up
this morning by another tenth of 1%.
That's the price action in precious
metals. We're 2 hours until the opening
bell. Let's get you some morning movers
and cross over to Danny Burger for more.
Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. If you just look at the
biggest movers to the downside, there's
an outsized presence of tech. A repeat
of what we saw Friday. Nvidia on the
lows of the pre-market session down two
and a third percent. If it continues to
decline, it will be its fourth
consecutive day of declines. The longest
losing streak since March. Take your
pick of why this is happening. Higher
bond yields as you were pointing out.
Alibaba unveiling a new AI chip. Some
bad earnings from other AI players.
Regardless of the reason, there are
clearly some market jitters around this.
Now elsewhere, another big tech 7
declining today is Amazon shares are
down 1 and a.5%. A Reuter story out
moments ago that sure Amazon touted its
really strong Prime Day sales but has
one internal metric of how many people
sign up to Prime in the runup to Prime
Day and that decline that missed the
mark lower by about 2% than what they
expected. So that also seemingly have an
impact here. Elsewhere, some activist
action. In the Wall Street Journal
reporting that Elliot Management has
taken a stake in PepsiCo, a $4 billion
stake. This would be one of Elliot's
biggest ever. It says that it wants to
have some changes at the drinks and
snacks maker given they're struggling
losing market share. It doesn't detail
what those changes might be, but still
shares up 4 and a.5%. John
>> Danny, thank you. Big move. More from
Danny in about 60 minutes time. On our
radar this morning, leaders from China,
India, and Russia signaled unity at the
security summit in China this week. The
three nations tightening diplomatic ties
in response to President Donald Trump's
sweeping global tariffs. The president
saying India is offering to remove all
tariffs on US goods after imposing 50%
levies on New Delhi for buying Russian
crude. Trump calling trade relations
with India quote a totally one-sided
disaster
>> and then going on to say it's almost too
late. So you wonder is there room for
negotiation? And you wonder if those two
stories are related. If the image of
Modi Xi and Putin getting together,
holding hands, giving each other hugs,
giving each other claps on the back and
saying, "Yeah, let's be a partners."
Whether that actually did get the
president thinking, "Okay, maybe we need
to do something a little bit different
here." I don't know. But it really is
questionable, especially at a time where
the leverage has been taken away given
the court ruling about uh pausing at
least if not stying the AIPA tariffs.
>> Is the president trying to drive a wedge
between a few of those individuals in
those pictures and ultimately it's not
working? India is not backing down over
buying Russian crude.
>> Well, the truth is what incentive do
they have to do so if they're going to
be penalized from the tariff
perspective? And it raises a question,
is this the beginning of a true outreach
or is this sort of a oneoff? Maybe we
can negotiate something if you remove
all the tariffs. Ultimately, this just
adds to the slew of uncertainty that
we've seen with respect to what the
tariff regime is going to be and what
this administration is signaling when it
comes to uh just how much they want
certain alliances versus others. Well,
let's talk about taxes, trade, and
what's happening in this bond market.
This is the latest from the Treasury
Department, sharing with Axios a list of
68 jobs that are eligible for President
Trump's no tax on tips promise. The list
includes waiters, bartenders, golf
caddies, and home electricians. Just a
reminder of that massive bill that's
being passed and maybe some of it shown
up in the bond market just a little bit
this morning. Okay, I went through this
list and first I was thinking, okay, so
does this mean that people when you go
get a pedicure or manicure, let's say
you're getting a manicure, do you can
you now tip with a credit card and is
that just as good as shipping in cash?
Because that's ultimately something that
they all say. I'm just saying personally
that's something that I've noticed. But
how many of these people actually paid
taxes on this? How many people actually
meet the threshold to be paying taxes
versus either break even, breaking even,
or getting money back? I mean, that's
really the question. How many
bartenders? I mean, I guess if you're at
a high-end uh bar, but really are making
like, you know, three-digit figures.
Three, you know, I just these are the
questions that I was asking as I went
through this.
>> We don't know because how much of the
earnings were actually disclosed?
>> That's a great question.
>> Over the past few years, in fact, the
past several decades. How much of the
earnings were actually disclosed?
>> I assume that gambling dealers and
gambling cage workers did really well
with their disclosures on their tax
forms. That's my suggestion. That disc
jockeys, if you're a disc jockey, you're
good. I was I was going through this and
you just wonder how much was actually
reported. How much do these people cross
the threshold for actually uh having to
pay extra taxes and how much will this
really shake the needle? I don't know.
>> It's hard to know. It's hard to know.
I'm with you. But we're losing an offset
potentially and I stress potentially.
The offset was going to come from the
tariff revenue and now it's just a
little bit of uncertainty around that. I
still believe the consensus on Wall
Street is that the legal proceedings
will continue that the president will
ultimately succeed in the Supreme Court
and these will stay on. But just that
uncertainty enough to cause some jitters
maybe stay side.
>> Yeah. And if you are into being a
plumber or if you're doing home
maintenance then you can keep those tips
and that actually could be the area that
could be most lucrative. I'm just
thinking about careers for my children
when they graduate. That's focused on
that. I think it could be a more
lucrative career than you know going and
working in an office these days because
that seems like it's less reliable.
>> I think there was a report was it from
Stanford in the last week on AI and jobs
for the for the entry level work. has
already been damaged, already seen them
held back
>> massively because they can just replace
them with AI, especially if you're a
computer programmer. So, if you're going
to be in computer programming, even
medicine potentially has a disruptive
factor. But if you're a plumber, you can
keep your tips and you can go out there
and you can get a job much more easily.
And that's actually what we're seeing in
the data.
>> And there's your pitch from Bremo. We'll
get more jobs data later on the week.
We'll get Jolts, we get ADP, we get the
big one, payrolls on Friday. Let's turn
to markets. Matt Mley, chief market
strategist at Militac, is cautiously
optimistic on the Russell 2000's recent
outperformance, writing the following.
The potential for the small cap sector
of the stock market to finally
outperform for more than just a few
weeks is definitely growing. Matt joins
us now for more. Matt, welcome back,
sir. Let's talk about it. 7% move in the
month of August. Let's talk about what
underpinned that move and why you think
maybe this can continue.
Well, it's going to depend obviously on
a lot of things and and we have this
situation suddenly cropping up in the
bond market, but you know, the the whole
thing though is is that everybody's, you
know, kind of focused on what's happened
with the tech stocks. They've had this
unbelievable run. Uh do they take a
little bit of a breather and do we see a
rotation? And we are seeing that
recently and we're seeing it rotate into
the into the small cap sector. And if
the economy uh you know can hold up uh
and doesn't roll back over or or or slow
even more uh this is could you know
let's face it the market is incredibly
momentum driven and you have the Russell
2000 now not just getting close to its
uh all-time highs from last year but
that all-time high is actually a double
top high from 2001 uh sorry 2021 and and
last year. you break above a double top
high, that's going to create all sorts
of of positive upside momentum and uh
and attract a lot of that momentum flow
into the market.
>> Matt, it's the inflation piece of this
that gets my attention. Gold at record
highs, big move also through the month
of August. What's the relationship
between say small caps, what we've seen
in precious metals and what might happen
with inflation over the next year?
Well, I mean, the the the thing about
inflation, I guess the the whole thing
I'm concerned about with what's going on
with gold is that it's becoming the kind
of the only uh uh the only risk-free or
or flight to safety trade. I mean, we
we've seen that the cryptocurrencies
haven't worked as well. And of course,
the bond market uh uh that that's you
know, if inflation is going higher, that
means the yields are going higher. And I
guess maybe the biggest concern I have
about this whole scenario that maybe
this the small caps can outperform is
what you're talking about on global
interest rates. Uh you know we're seeing
it in Europe, Japan, etc. But a lot of
that doesn't just have to do with
inflation. It has to do with concerns uh
about budget deficits and uh fiscal
spending, etc. And if we can't make up
for for for some of these uh losses we
get on I'm sorry, some of this revenue
that we lose uh from tariffs or
whatever, uh we're we're going to have a
a big I guess what I'm trying to say is
that we have to be very careful. We're
moving into this this month of
September. Watch those interest rates.
Uh if they move higher, it's going to be
a big problem.
>> So you think that that could potentially
curtail the momentum that we're seeing
in small caps if you see long-end rates
go higher even if you see short-end
rates continue to decline? Is that
right?
>> Yes. And and one of the things that well
two things number one on on when it
comes to the you were talking with the
previous guest about the yield curve and
you know the yield curve was like well
you know boy those old days when the
when inverted yield curves signal a
recession. Well we don't have to worry
about that anymore. But it was actually
never that. It was only when the yield
curve not only goes from inverted back
up to positive but when it gets to 50 to
60 basis points as it is getting now.
That's usually what's signals a slowdown
uh a significant slowdown or even a
recession that's not good for for small
cap stocks. And then of course the other
issue is that when we have the uh uh you
know the the situation where where the
economy well we go back to the earnings
growth and we could talk about that but
the earnings growth that we're seeing
right now although it's good and it's
solid it's good and solid for a stock
market that's up uh you know that's
trading at 17 times earnings not one
that's trading at 23 times earnings. So
again, we have a lot of headwinds we're
looking at right now. So I am saying
that the the odds are are are are
growing that we'll see some
outperformance of the small caps, but
we're definitely it's definitely not a
lock. We have to wait to see how things
play out over the next couple weeks. Are
we creating narratives to try to be
bullish on all of these stocks in the
universe as a result of a very
bifurcated market where you have a sea
change in artificial intelligence
driving a massive increase in market cap
of just a handful of companies and
people are saying okay they're looking
pretty expensive those 10 stocks that
account for about 40% of the S&P 500 now
but you know that dynamism can be
carried out to other names as well are
people getting ahead of their skills
skis over their skis when it comes to
that kind of mentality and then trying
to find other reasons to justify that.
>> Lisa, I definitely think that that's
that's part of the case. And you know,
we look at what's going on right now.
We're seeing some more raising of price
targets on the S&P 500. Well, that
people were tripping over themselves to
do that in January just before the
market went down and people were
tripping over themselves to cut their
targets when the in April when the
market was making a bottom. Now, we're
kind of seeing the oppos the opposite
tact. Uh but you know what it comes down
to though which when you talk about
we're looking for that broadening out
and people are desperately looking for
that but we have to remember that this
is still a techdriven market and you
know if this if the tech stocks trade
sideways or even trade slightly higher
but lag a little bit that's okay we can
see a rotation that's what we saw in
January of this past year sorry January
of this year uh but if tech stocks start
to go down they're much too highly
weighted in all the major indices for
them for those indices not to go down.
And I'll tell you, if those indices
start to go down, the whole look of
rotation is going to disappear. People
are going to rotate into cash because
we've heard all this talk about bubbles
and the September October time frame.
People are going to start pulling money
out of the stock. So, uh, out of the
market. So, if the AI situation starts
to uh, you know, fade, and of course, we
had that you know, that report from MIT
a week or so ago talking about how zero
how so few companies are making uh,
money from this. Uh and then you look at
what's going on with Nvidia reported
what good numbers but not so good. But
when whenever Nvidia rolls over after
reporting earnings like it seems to be
doing right now that creates headwinds.
So again no matter what we talk about
small caps and rotations and things and
everybody's hoping for that you got to
follow the tech stocks. If they go down
the market's going to go down and the
money's going to come out of the market.
So uh we're definitely heading into this
uh this you know seasonality issue uh
that is you know starting starting this
morning in a in a rough fashion. We'll
see if it continues that way.
>> They're going down this morning. Matt,
appreciate your time. Matt Maddie of
Militback. We're down about 1% on the
NASDAQ 100. Speaking of new price
targets, this from Julian Emanuel of
Evercore. New price target for year end
next year, year end 2026, 7750 on the
S&P 500.
>> Yeah, the once in a-lifetime opportunity
that he sees in AI. And this is what's
driving him to see even if there are
some dips or uh you know some volatility
which people have been expecting last
month but might just be delayed that
will still lead to a much higher market
on the heels of AI which could be true.
It's just a question of participation.
Does everyone get to participate in that
gain
>> getting one of those dips this morning
just a little bit softer. We're negative
by8% on the S&P 500 with an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara Arnold. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Food giant Craft Hines plans to
split its business into two companies in
an effort to streamline operations,
provide greater resources to individual
brands, and drive profit. One company
will include its sauces like Hines
ketchup and box products like Craft Mac
and Cheese. The second will sell grocery
products like Oscar Meyer hot dogs and
Lunchables. The transaction is expected
to close in the second half of next
year. Meanwhile, Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson said the Trump
administration may declare a national
housing emergency this fall. He declined
to list any specific actions, but
Bessant told the Washington Examiner
that housing affordability would be a
critical leg of Republicans 2026 midterm
election platform. and New York
Democratic Representative Gerald Nadler,
the former House Judiciary Chairman,
will not seek re-election next year,
ending his 34-year congressional career.
Nadler helped lead President Trump's
impeachments, and he told the New York
Times that at 78, he wants to respect
the need for a generational change in
the Democratic Party. Dutch brief, John,
>> Yahara, thank you. 34 years later, 78
years old, respecting the need for
generational change. is better late than
never I guess but it does honestly this
will be a real question though we have
seen retirements how much are people
going to push back what is that new
generation of leadership look like
that's the key question
>> well from that party further and further
to the other extreme
>> well this is what we've been talking
about we've seen a polarization
increasingly on both sides of the party
and we've seen this globally so who
brings that together does anybody or is
this just sort of the way to go in the
future
>> how interesting is New York politics
right now
>> it's pretty interesting
>> right
>> it would be I feel a little more boring.
>> It's going to get more interesting in a
few months time. Up next on the program,
I'm right there with you. A warning sign
for financial markets. It
>> is a warning sign and we have seen
governments react to this sort of
warning signal. That's just something we
need to be a little bit careful of not
to mix signals here.
>> We catch up with Matt Horn back of
Morgan Stanley in just a moment live
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
equities down here by 0.8% on the S&P
500. Negative on the NASDAQ by one full
percentage point under surveillance this
morning. A warning sign from financial
markets. is a warning sign and we have
seen governments react to this sort of
warning signal. Donald Trump himself
clearly has reacted to that sort of
warning sign before and we have to be
careful not to conclude right away that
if the bond yield rises that
automatically translates directly into
much much higher spending on interest
payments. That's just something we need
to be a little bit careful of not to mix
signals here.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
30-year bond yields inching back towards
5% as bond yields worldwide continue to
climb. Matt Hornbeck of the managing
director and global head of macro
strategy at Morgan Stanley writing,
"With Fed rate cuts approaching, we
expect both Treasury yields and the US
dollar to make new lows in the fall."
Matt Hornbach joins us now for more.
Matt, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Good to see you in person, buddy. Thanks
for dropping by. Been following you, the
team, Mike Gapen, your calls on the
Federal Reserve. So, now looking for a
cut in September, but I think you make
an important distinction, a
riskmanagement move versus something
much larger and deeper over the next
year. Can you just explain that just a
little bit?
>> Yeah, absolutely. Well, we are expecting
the Fed to restart the easing cycle this
uh this month. And the the reason is not
because we're on the precipice of
recession. It's really about trying to
avoid us being on the precipice of
recession. And so the way that you do
that is you begin to once again reduce
the amount of restraint that the economy
is dealing with in terms of short-term
interest rates. And the idea there is,
of course, as you start to lower
short-term interest rates again, those
longerterm interest rates, which have
not been going down very much, will
start to follow. And of course, this
happens both with a steepening of the
yield curve, which is what we've seen.
But as the yield curve steepens, it
actually increases the incentive for
levered investors to put money to work
further out the yield curve. And in
doing so, you then start to see those
long-term interest rates move lower as
well. And that's really what's important
for the US economy is getting those
long-term interest rates to begin to
trend lower, not just move lower in a
given month, right? We want these
interest rates to be trending lower. And
without rate cuts, it's hard to see that
happening.
>> The flip side to all of this is that
maybe the Fed's going too soon.
Inflation target is 2%. inflation's
running well above that and that perhaps
we just heard from a Federal Reserve
that's more tolerant of inflation and
for that reason hands off don't want to
buy the long end. How would you push
back against that view at the moment?
>> Well, it's it's hard to push back
against that view at the moment because
that's what people are talking about and
often times the narrative will drive the
price action. So, uh it is tough to push
back against that in this moment. But we
need some more inflation data to really
understand where is the locus of
inflation today. Is it in the tariff
related sectors? Is it in services? This
last inflation report showed hardly any
signs of tariff driven inflation. It was
mostly in the service sector. Uh core
PCE which we got last week. Goods
inflation was zero. So, it's really hard
to look at the inflation that we're
getting and cry foul about tariffs. We
think it's coming, but we have thought
it was coming for several months now,
and it hasn't shown up to the extent
that we thought it would.
>> You've uh you suggest in in the argument
something that John's been raising for a
while. At what point will weakening
weakening economic data not push people
into long-term treasuries, but have the
opposite effect? Right. the idea that if
the economy isn't strong enough, that
questions how much the US can really
increase the revenues at a time where
they're going to need to increase
spending, which will lead to more
inflation, bigger deficit, higher yields
in the long run. I mean, at what point
do we reach that kind of doom loop that
we're seeing the UK flirt with?
>> Yeah. I I I tend to think about these
doom loop concepts as relating more to
the currency than to longer term
interest rates. Uh it's been I think a
very long time uh since we've seen
investors abandon the long end of the
yield curve when the economy is going
down the tubes. I I just haven't seen it
at least that I can remember in 25
years. U but you can't say the same
thing about the currency. And so if we
were to get into a situation where the
economy hit recessionary territory and
the Fed had to lower interest rates much
more aggressively, uh that would be an
environment where I think you would see
interest rates across the yield curve
decline led by the front end of the
curve of course, but at the same time I
think you would see the US dollar
depreciate. And that's more or less what
we're forecasting. we have interest
rates going down and the dollar going
down simultaneously.
>> If that's the case, why not buy 30-year
bond yields, uh, 30-year bonds over in
Europe and just buy them for the
absolute given the fact that you expect
a currency appreciation relative to the
dollar as well as potentially maybe a
stabilizing.
>> Well, I think for long-term investors,
that's a great trade. No doubt. Uh, but
when we talk about investment strategy,
unfortunately, we have to be a bit
wonky, right? We have to talk about both
what we are recommending real money
investors to do with their cash and then
what we recommend levered investors to
do. And the yield curve in in the US is
a great example of this. If you're a
real money investor and you're really
going for total return, the long end of
the yield curve has great value. Real
yields at 2.5% on the very long end of
the curve, that's great value. That's
where you should be putting your money
if you're a real money investor. If
you're a levered investor, meaning
you're borrowing money in the short-term
interest rate markets and then lending
it long, it's it's better to be in the
short end of the yield curve because
from a levered perspective, that's where
I think you make most of your money.
>> Matt, important distinction. Matt Horn
back and Morgan Stanley, good to see you
in person once again. Got to do this
more often. It's been a long, long time.
>> Pleasure to be here.
>> Thanks for dropping by. Appreciate it.
As we pointed out a few times already
this morning, this dynamic that's
playing out so far today is not just in
America. You're seeing it in the UK and
France and Japan and elsewhere. the move
in the UK both in the bond market and
the currency of the utmost concern I
think going into this budget for the
Brits in a few months time.
>> Yeah. The highest 30-year yields going
back to 1998 at a time where there's a
real question about how much money they
can raise through the taxes lever given
how many people as you point out have
been leaving the region and how much
they actually have the willingness to
cut budgets at a time of public outcry
and we've seen that in France. So this
really is the conundrum.
>> I'm pleased you use that word because
you're dead on the willingness. They've
got the ability. They've got the
majority in parliament. They just
haven't been willing to make the
spending cuts that need to happen.
There's been push back from their own
party.
>> Yeah. So, this is the issue. Do they
take the political heat? And if they
don't, does the bond market give them
the political heat?
>> There are consequences. Yields up by six
basis points and the currency a whole
lot weaker. Coming up in just a moment,
Judy Bill of Kane Anderson Runick. We'll
catch up with Ken Hexter of Bank for
America, Eron McLolin of the Conference
Board, and Kathy Jones of Schwab.
This is an environment that is very
volatile.
>> In general, things have been drifting
more positive.
>> Yields still look elevated versus where
they've been.
>> Our long-term outlook for the equity
market is that the returns are going to
be lower than they have been over the
prior 5 or 10 years.
>> Everything is expensive right now and I
think we should expect lower returns
across the board, both from stocks and
from bonds. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. Stocks
down, bonds down. Equities lowered by
0.8% on the S&P 500. Bond yields higher
on a 30-year bond this morning,
approaching 5% state side. your yield
49727.
As we work our way through the week,
tons of economic data, including ADP in
a few days time. And then the big one on
Friday, payrolls Friday just around the
corner.
>> And what is the market lining up to
respond to some of this data is good
news, good news. I know that Stuart
Kaiser is shaking his head, but this
really is the question. If you get
better than expected data, what does the
Fed do with that? Do they still cut
rates this month? If they do cut rates,
do people start to worry about
inflation? And on the flip side, how
punitive could the markets treat a
negative number or something that really
is thought of as really weak given
already some of the concerns about the
dollar and concerns about the fiscal
background?
>> So this is how I'm thinking about the
data at the moment. I think it's rate
cut on for September. Whatever would
take something massive to change their
story. The debate of the Federal Reserve
is what to signal beyond that. What
comes next? That's where Governor
Wallace's speech going into the weekend
becomes I think increasingly important
when he says let's get on with it was
literally the title of the speech.
Everything in it from there is about
what you do once you've started and he
started to signal more cuts beyond
September. Is this committee prepared to
go along with that or is se September
still far too soon?
>> This market is going along with it and
this market is pricing in the greatest
number of rate cuts through the end of
next year that we have seen outside of a
recession in the United States going
back to the 1980s. So if that is true,
does that come with no consequences?
Does that come without the inflation
that some people worry about or do we
have to think about what that means
about a tolerance of higher inflation in
order to prompt growth? And that I think
is what the market is grappling with
around the world with yields going
higher.
>> Seeing it in precious metals, gold
record highs up 30% so far this year, up
5% last month. Are you seeing it at the
long end of the yield curve? I think in
some cases you might be just a little
bit of push back from the bond market
too.
>> Yeah, and this has to do with inflation.
It also has to do with just uh
credibility in the fiscal backdrop over
the next three decades. I do wonder, you
talk about gold at record highs at
almost $3,500 an ounce. You wonder what
happens if you start to see something
like Peter Shear suggested yield curve
control. If the Fed starts to say we're
concerned about the yippiness, the
30-year we're going to try to control
it, buy some bonds, try to get that
down, do you start to see gold prices go
even higher? As a lot of investors
around the world think of government
bonds of developed markets as not being
the haven that they have traditionally
been. Danny mentioned this last week and
Danny's right to bring this up. The
transmission of monetary policy, is it
being disrupted? Are you dropping
interest rates but not seeing an easing
of financial conditions? Now, here in
America, that would mean lower mortgage
costs and that would mean lower yields
at the long end of the curve. And is
that a reason, a justification to step
in at the Fed Reserve? And I'm not
thinking about this Fed. Forget this
Fed. Chairman Pal when he offers
guidance in September. That's the last
guidance you're getting from Chairman
Pal. the next time they deliver
forecasts, we'll know who the next Fed
chair is. And we'll be far more
interested in their guidance for 26th
than his. And I think it's the next
Federal Reserve, the next iteration of
this Fed, and what they're willing to do
and not willing to do with the balance
sheet that I think becomes more
interesting.
>> Well, it also becomes more interesting
at comparisons with Turkey because if
you have yield curve control in order to
transmit monetary policy, what is the
goal of that monetary policy? It means
that inflation is no longer the
pre-minent concern. It really is about
juicing growth. And that is a very
different priority for a Federal Reserve
that will require a very different
market. And that I think is what a lot
of people are trying to wrap their heads
around. But I think the market has been
pretty complacent or at least not really
taking that as as a realistic kind of
probability and saying there are enough
uh people who take their jobs seriously
that that isn't going to happen.
>> Bonds down yields up by five basis
points this morning. 30s of 498. Coming
up this hour, Judy Bill of Kane Anderson
Rdnick as we kick off a new trading
month. Ken Hexter of Bank of America as
shipping companies face fresh headwinds
and Eron McLolin of the conference board
as we look ahead to jobs data this week.
We begin this out with stocks pulling
back from recent record highs. Judy Bill
the chief market strategist at Kane
Anderson Runick writing August brought
us a broader market led by small cap
value and the lagards for the market. I
think if the employment data continues
to hold up that can continue. Julie
joins us now. Julie welcome to the
program. that disconnect that we've been
talking about, a Federal Reserve that's
worried about a cyclical downturn. At
the same time, the equity market is
displaying more of a cyclical tilt in
the last month. Does something have to
give?
>> Yeah, I think something does have to
give. I think everyone is assuming that
the Fed is moving to a place of easing
and that's going to make life easier for
everyone, including small caps. And
there's also an assumption that we've
really seen everything we need to see
about tariffs. Like, case closed. It's
really not a big problem. We don't
really have to worry about it, guys.
It's it's not showing up in inflation
and I think most people can really
recognize that companies did a great job
frontloading and doing everything they
could to offset tariffs. I don't think
we've seen the worst of it. And if
they're ruled illegal, that creates
problems in the bond market as far as
the credibility of the US government for
being able to pay back its debts.
>> Well, Judy, let's start with the bond
market then. I'm pretty sure you've
brought this up. Do you think this
morning's price action is somehow
connected to the legal decision going
into the weekend?
>> I think it's part of it. I I do think
that there is a recognition that you
know we set up this budget with the
assumption that we were going to be able
to plug the hole with the tariffs and
you know they've done a great job
rolling in. I think there's a real
recognition that if we do not have that
lever to pull gosh and we don't seem to
have any inclination to be able to do
the hard work of either cutting or
raising taxes that really does call into
question the level and ability for us to
repay our debts. I think we really sort
of start to look like that kind of
creditor, that friend of yours that
borrowed money and under, you know, not
great circumstances and I think that's
problematic and that's kind of where the
bond market is right now.
>> If we do get negative economic data this
week, how punitive will the response be
in equity markets?
>> I, you know, I think it depends, right?
Because it's all, I'm always like, I
agree with you. I'm always like, hey,
just curious, is good news good news or
is good news bad news or where are we
right now? I think that right now the
way that the market is levered to
interest rates declining and that really
seems to be the place where everyone's
focus is that if we have superlatively
good economic data that you'll see
actually a pullback in the markets. I
would argue that that's probably a good
sign. It's really showing the level of
resilience of our economy to handle an
incredible amount of uncertainty and a
challenging you know policy situation. I
think it would be positive, but I think
for most investors, they're really lever
to what's happening at the Fed and
what's happening with interest rates.
>> So, if we get negative data, that could
end up being positive for small caps
because of the potential rate cuts that
could come on the heels of it. Is that
what you're saying that ultimately the
small cap story is a yield story and
that is the reason why when you see
yields higher that leads to a sell-off
like the one we're seeing today? Yeah, I
think that most people have a really
strong connection between interest rates
and small cap and some of it makes a lot
of sense to me because most small cap
companies are borrowing short and in the
you know they're borrowing with their
banks on variable rates and so they
weren't able to lock in the fantastic
interest rates that we as home buyers or
large companies were able to do. So they
are more economically sensitive and
their leverage is more variable. there
is benefit to them but I think beyond
that it's really much more important for
small cap is how good is the economy
doing because broadly speaking it's more
economically sensitive
>> well Judy let's talk about a couple of
names Ross stores up 8% last month TJ
Maxx up almost 10% last month names that
you like what does that price action
speak to
>> well I think it really speaks to
everyone in retail is moving towards
where is their good traffic right
because traffic is where you could
really recognize that a retail retailer
is able to meet what it's it what's its
what its customers are really looking
for. And just like we are hunting for
value as investors, if you think of just
how price starved we all are, we don't
have value anymore with the level of
inflation and erosion that we have.
Everything that happens in off price,
you know, you go into the stores and
there's a real recognition, my god, this
at least here I can find some good
value, some good deals. And I think
what's interesting about off-pric is
most of our manufacturers of retail and
general merchandise, they have this
incentive to create as much stuff as
possible, right? Because that
incremental dollar is that incremental
sale is so high margin. So there's
always an excess of goods. And so these
retailers do such a great job collecting
all of them and then selling them
quietly without putting them online. So
you have a lot of price discovery,
right? Amazon can't do this, right?
There's it's too much price visibility.
But you know, your Ali's, your Ross,
your TJ, you do a great job being able
to collect all of this merchandise and
it's structurally protected.
>> Do you think it speaks to a step down in
economic resilience of the consumer that
we're seeing those names before?
>> Absolutely. Because it's not just them,
right? You know, you see that Walmart is
able to really bring in more of the very
very high-end customers. I think that if
you look across income spectrum,
everyone feels annoyed with how high
prices are. I mean, we had we had the
management team of Hermes in our in our
offices. And she just kept talking about
value. And for them, value was just look
at the quality of our craftsmanship and
what you pay for it. And we've only
raised our prices mid single digits
while, you know, Chanel has raised them
20 or 30%. Everyone's talking about it
and I think it's just a recognition that
we're just starving for any sense that
our d our dollar is worth something.
>> So, is inflation good or bad for small
caps? I think inflation is generally
pretty bad for small caps. They've shown
themselves less able to be able to raise
prices. They don't ne they don't always
have the level of economic control that
larger cap companies have, right? They
can't shrink down their packaging as
easily as Proctor and Gamble can. And so
they were really hamstrung by what
happened early on with inflation. I
think they've gotten their footing. They
have reset their capital structures.
They've reset their cost structures and
they're in better shape. But if we see
an environment where inflation really
skyrockets, that's problematic for them.
>> Julie, appreciate your time as always.
Thank you. Julie Bill there of Kane
Anderson RDNik. If you're just tuning
in, seeing another leg down in stocks,
another step up in bond yields. Stocks
are down by.9% on the S&P 500. Bond
yields higher now. Bremo on tens at
least by more than six basis points.
>> So how high can they get before
something breaks? And can this be this
sort of persistent grind higher that
we've seen particularly in the UK but
around the world in the United States
you pointed to this idea that it could
be tied to the idea of tariff revenues
not coming in here is this the breaking
point or not quite that I think is what
people are wondering
>> and the good news side is we're still at
430 which is the low end of the range I
believe we're still down on the year as
well for 2025 much more disturbing I
think is what's happening further out
along the curve 30 say and beyond
America what's happening in the UK and
in France where the bond market is
asking for corrective action in those
countries. I don't think we're there yet
state side, but we're certainly there
beyond those levels in France, in the
UK, and elsewhere.
>> I just wonder what the response is going
to be from policy makers. Maybe it's
just not to issue the debt because
ultimately at what point is it just a
dead current a dead denomination because
there isn't the demand for it at a time
where we can't see out 5 years, let
alone 30.
>> Ask the Treasury Secretary the same the
same question when he was sat in the
seat on this program. What's the
incentive for anyone right now, the UK,
France, or otherwise, to issue out along
the curve at a point where the investor
base is turning around and saying,
"Don't want it anymore. Don't want it."
>> And what you're going to expect is that
they're probably not going to issue as
much. And we're already hearing that.
So, will it become a rare currency or a
rare uh denomination that people will go
to uh even more? I mean,
>> I mean, but these are the questions, you
know, then does it offer value if
they're going to reduce issuance? And it
actually is it the Matt Hornback view of
the world that you've got to coales
around
>> the bond yields higher around the world
so far this morning with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We have more details on the
Clara IPO. It is looking to raise as
much as $1.27 billion in its highly
anticipated debut. The buy now pay later
firm plans to sell 34.3 million shares
in the IPO with the price expected to be
between 35 and $37 per share. The
Swedish fintech will trade on the New
York Stock Exchange under the ticker KL
A. And as you all were just discussing,
the yield on 30-year guilt climbed to
the highest level since 1998 as an
already rough fiscal backdrop adds
pressure to the Bank of England ahead of
its meeting this month. But it's not
just in the UK. 30-year bond yields
around the world are rising to fresh
multi-deade highs amid concerns over
inflation and government financing. And
here the Treasury Department has given a
first look at the jobs that will qualify
for President Trump's no tax on TIPS
pledge. The 68 jobs mentioned include
waiters and bartenders, bellhops, golf
caddies, and home electricians to name a
few. Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
described the full list which has yet to
be released as expansive and fair.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, the morning calls as
Ferrari shares a higher following a
recent upgrade. Plus, Ken Hexter at Bank
of America as shipping companies face
fresh headwinds. All of that just around
the corner.
[Music]
I think the administration's going to go
to the Supreme Court and and and get a
final determination on whether the tool
they use to put these tariffs in place
um are going to uh stand or not. um if
they fall they've got a lot of other
options. They've got many different
statutes they could go to. It is not the
end of the story by any means. Uh
there's a lot of other options out
there. That was Everett Eisenstein, the
partner at Squire Pan and former
National Economic Council deputy
director following the legal push back
going into the weekend on President
Trump's tariffs. Now, there's a few
people already this morning pointing out
that maybe some of this is showing up in
the bond market, seeing 30-year bond
yields higher, 10-year bond yields
higher. Just the idea being that maybe
the offset the revenue raising of this
tariff effort has supported this bond
market over the last month.
>> Henry trees came on and said that this
reduces uh some to the tune of 2 to3
trillion dollars revenues to the US
Treasury Department if there is this
full roll back of AIPA of the tariffs
that have put under that statute. The
>> issue for the bond market though is that
is one small issue in the grand scheme
of things. Bond yields are higher state
side. They are much much higher
worldwide in the UK, in France, in
Japan. Yields higher across the board.
The equity market a whole lot softer on
the S&P, the NASDAQ, and the Russell
following some massive outperformance on
the Russell in the month of August, up
7% this morning, down by more than 1%.
The S&P 500, negative by 0.9. That's the
price action. Here are the morning
calls. First up, Mizuo raising its price
target on Alibaba to 159, saying the
firm has the best cloud assets in China.
Your second call from Deutsche Bank
upgrading Ferrari to buy expecting the
supercar maker to unveil ambitious new
targets next month. The stock is up by
another 1%. And finally, Barclay's
raising his price target on Ulti to 617,
citing increased transactions and growth
across all categories. Let's turn to the
shipping industry as the end of the
Deminimus exemption is causing fresh
headwinds. Bloomberg's Brendan Murray
joins us now for more. Brendan, welcome
to the program, sir. As always,
difficult to keep up. share with us the
latest and what's going on on this
point.
>> Yeah, exactly. So, what we've had is uh
about two or three dozen uh uh mail
services from around the world had that
have suspended the shipment of these
smaller parcels to the US because they
don't have the uh the sort of back
office uh facility yet to hooked up to
the US customs agency uh to process
these shipments or to pay for them. So
uh the the sender is responsible to pay
the tariff and if they if they don't
have the uh the linkages uh connected
between all of these various uh mail uh
operators, these parcel delivery
companies, then it's then all these all
these packages are going to sit around
or not get sent at all. So it's going to
it's going to create some disruption uh
in this particular part of global trade.
these uh these packages that that ship a
small amount of goods worth not a whole
lot of money. Uh but they can they can
add up. There are something like 1.4
billion of them sent uh into the US
every year. Uh that's something like
four 4 million a day. So it's a it's a
it's a huge volume even if the the value
of them is small.
>> Brendan, you track a lot of the volume.
Just talk to us about what's happened
not just with the US to China and China
to the US but around the world. One
thing that we've noted, and Lisa and I
were talking about it earlier, is that
tariffs might have gone up and trade
between the US and China might have gone
down, but global trade between China and
the rest of the world seems to keep on
increasing. And that trade surplus
doesn't seem to be going down at all.
>> Yeah, exactly. I mean, we've seen it uh
we've seen it play out in the in recent
weeks where uh China and and other
countries that are hit with US tariffs.
Uh they they go out on missions to to to
to uh try to establish new trade
relationships and build those up if the
US relationship is deteriorating. So, uh
look, we've had this uh this huge
spectacle in China over the weekend uh
with India, Russia and uh and Xiinping
hosting uh those three leaders of the
BRICS countries. And you know this is
the fragmentation of the global economy
happening before our before our eyes.
And uh it's it's yet to be seen whether
the US and Donald Trump can use this
particular tariff authority that he's
that he's uh launched this latest trade
war with. Uh but as uh as you know as
these experts say he's got a lot of
tools uh to to that will allow him to
impose tariffs on US imports. But those
tool those tool tools are slower and
they're less uh they're less broad. you
can't just flick a switch and turn them
on and off uh the way President Trump
has has done with his reciprocal
tariffs. So, uh the the bottom line is
there's just a lot of uncertainty. There
already has been, but this just extends
it out until the courts resolve this
issue. If you're a small business or a
company looking to hire or invest,
you're looking at you're looking at the
situation and going, "Uh, what do I do?
Do I wait or do I go now?" It's just uh
it's going to extend this period of
uncertainty.
>> I don't think you know what to do.
That's for sure. Brendan, appreciate it.
Bloom's Brenda Murray there out of
London. Ken Hexter, the Bank of America
security senior analyst of air freight
and surface transportation joins us now
for more. Ken, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's extend some of that conversation
and thanks for being here. Let's take
the dimminimus exemption. Can you just
walk us through give us a feel for how
much of the overall volume between say
trade between the US and China that
actually accounted for through air
freight alone?
>> Yeah. And and happy post Labor Day.
Welcome back to work everybody. So you
know it's it's a great question in terms
of you know Brandon was mentioning the
the 1.4 4 1.5 billion packages a year.
It's about 4 million a day. So you've
got a lot of frequency. UPS and FedEx
export combined about 2.8 million
packages per day. So they're
representing and that's not all
dimminimous but a huge portion of this
dimmin movement uh on a per day. But
international is only about 25% of each
of UPS and FedEx's revenues and then the
export portion is only 17%. So we're
still talking a small portion as Brenda
mentioned a smaller portion of the
number of volumes or the high volume
volume but low value of the packages
moved. But this is meaningful. This is
the highest profitable lane is the US
China lane. So we've already seen those
volumes down about 75% year-over-year.
Once this went into effect in May, the
new news here is on Friday it expanded
to the rest of the world. So that's
about 24% of Dominus is now encapsulated
in this new expanded part. How
enforceable is this?
>> So, it's it's enforced by the US, right?
So, it's it's something that our Customs
and Border Protection uh division is
going to be me uh watching. And so, now
everybody has to comply. The difference
of what's going on before is UPS and
FedEx already required uh the
information on what's in the in the
package, but now you've got to get who
made the packet, who made the goods. Uh
and so the difference is the postal
operators. He was mentioning 30
different postal service operators
suspended because they don't have the
technology. Before you could just check
a box that this was a small lowv value
package. Now you've got to give so much
more information. So that's guarded by
the c CBP on and on imports. No,
>> I was just wondering, you know, if you
get on a plane, let's say, and you get
$500 worth of goods from some country,
how do they come on the plane and get
it? I just wonder is this, you know, I'm
just thinking theoretically, stop
laughing at me. I mean, how do they
enforce this? Has it become difficult
given all of the changes in the tariff
regimes and some of the legal
challenges?
>> Yeah. what what you're carrying on you
that's still not not going to change as
far as that that $800 limit right
this is mailing cross border right so
this is going what's going in packages
what's going on vessels what's going on
different methods of transport even rail
cross border so they're managing what's
what packages are going cross border
>> the companies that you follow at the
moment who's executing really well who
have you been impressed by
>> well I mean they're they're executing in
terms of FedEx and UPS already move
traffic right have the the skill sets
But this is a question about what's
going to happen with the increased rates
to those packages. So for example, Teimu
and Shien, right? These were low value
shippers that had found a loophole and
expanded that loophole. We went from 100
million packages 20 years ago to a
billion and a half, right? And that's
already up to 900 million uh packages at
run rate by the time this went into
effect in May. So you're you're seeing
this this is really taking those
companies that learned how to take
advantage. And what you've seen is she's
volumes are down 23%. I'm sorry, uh down
12%. But uh revenues are up 23%. Because
they've they've taken rates up to adjust
for the tariffs or they've gone in and
and as you were mentioning gone to
different countries.
>> Super smart. Ken, appreciate your time.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Come back soon. We'll do it again. K
there of Bank of America. Are you
shipping a parcel sometime soon
>> on your person?
>> On my person? Am I going to like pack
myself with gold bars from London? Look,
I do think that what the point here is,
does it kill the fast fashion industry?
I mean, just to be serious, aside from
the fast fashion of getting on a plane
with lots of clothes on it,
>> would that be a bad thing?
>> Well, yeah, but but you know what I'm
saying? Like that that's that's the
issue is that, you know, I don't know
that my kids are going to get from Sheen
in the same kind of way. And maybe
that's positive.
>> The businesses that were viable 6 months
ago maybe aren't anymore
>> or they're just going to jack up prices.
>> Yeah, we've still got to figure it all
out.
>> Yeah. How do you price this if you're a
company at the moment? I mean, this is
the reason why I just wonder, do they
come back to the office and say, "Let's
invest."
>> Up next on the program, the sneaky bullc
case.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> I just wonder. I'm curious.
>> Eron McLolin of the Conference Board
joins us in just a moment from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
On many occasions, you wake up in the
morning, stay side, and Asia or Europe's
had a bit of a freakout, and the
American session buys it. Not seeing
that so far this morning. We'll see if
this sticks, but at the moment, we're
negative and getting lower. We're down
1% on the S&P, down by 1.3 on the small
caps. And in the bond market, yields
taken another leg higher, up seven basis
points now on 10, approaching 430, up
six on 30s, approaching 5% at 498 93.
>> Yeah. And you just wonder whether this
is being led by the United States or
whether it's being led by the rest of
the world. And that ultimately is the
question you asked John whether this is
tied to a lack of revenue coming from
tariffs. if the AIPA uh statute isn't
enough to justify this government. But
there's a bigger question and is it a
loss of credibility of governments in
France and the UK in addition to what's
going on in the US it's causing this
global selloff and
>> arguably the US is in a more comfortable
seat at the moment relative to what's
taking place in the UK and France. And
you and I were talking about it just
briefly. The moves we're seeing outside
of America, these moves in the US are
just screaming for corrective action
from Washington DC. The moves in France
and the UK are and I'd be much more
worried if I was sitting down in the
United Kingdom facing down the prospect
of putting together a budget in a few
months time with yields of the highest
since the late 1990s and up again this
morning and pushing 5% on 10 and on 30s
pushing six.
>> Yeah. with a currency that is rapidly
depreciating, with a pound that is
losing ground versus the euro and ver
versus the dollar. Are they willing to
make the hard decisions? And what does
that mean for growth in a region that's
facing off with a real conundrum?
>> What are the hard decisions? The hard
decisions aren't putting up taxes. The
hard decisions are cutting spending.
That's the most difficult decision
they've got to make at the moment. And
you and I went over it briefly. This is
not about ability. They have a majority
in parliament. This is about willingness
of MPs to follow through and the
market's going to keep demanding it. We
talked about this last week. I think
it's really, really important. At what
point do they believe they need to vote
for those kind of spending cuts that the
market is asking for? And I think we
basically concluded that politicians
won't vote for this until the
alternative is worse. And the
alternative needs to get worse before
they vote for it. And we're just not
there yet. which means things can get
worse in the UK, they can get worse in
France before the corrective action is
taken.
>> This is John Pharaoh asking for the bond
vigilantes to pick up the pace, make
things worse so that things can get
better. I mean, it's a little bit I
mean, that's kind of the the idea. I
mean, what is the pressure? It's going
to come from the bond market. They're
the adults in the room. That's what
everyone keeps saying. And the question
is how much they have to push back
before there is corrective action. And
that is ultimately uh this sort of game
of chicken that we keep talking about
that isn't quite there yet this morning.
>> I don't think it's a game the UK wants
to play.
>> Nobody wants to play
>> or France for that matter. And let's see
if there's a central bank willing to
step in sometime soon because right now
I don't see signs of that either. That
can change but I don't see signs of that
right now. Under one hour away from the
cash open. Let's turn back to the equity
side of things. Bit of a downdraft this
morning. We're lower by about 1% on the
S&P and lower by a whole lot more on the
NASDAQ and a Russell. With your morning
movers, here's Danny Burgerer. Yeah. Hey
Johnny.
>> A really tough start to September, John.
So you've got to find some positive
stories where you can. Pepsi by far is
one of the biggest winners today. It's a
report from the Wall Street Journal that
Elliot Management has taken a $4 billion
stake in the company and activist stake
hoping hoping to turn around PepsiCo,
which has been falling and lagging its
peers. So those shares up four and a
third percent. But elsewhere, some bad
news for the beverage makers. We had
earnings from Constellation Brands. The
beer maker really really tough set of
results. They see for the full year some
of their sales declining between four
and 2%. They cite the macro environment
that not only is consumer demand weaker,
but it is just frankly more volatile and
that makes things like judging their
inventory increasingly hard. So, so
those shares down 9.2%.
Finally, some of the gambling companies,
those are also falling on some news
report from CNBC that you are looking at
a new gambling venture opening up with
Crypto.com and Underground Sports. So
that means just more competition for the
existing online gambling companies. So
Flutter Entertainment and DraftKings
both down by more than 1%. John
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Danny Burgerer, Matt Miller taking over
things in about 27 26 minutes time. So
look out for open interest at 9:00 a.m.
Eastern time. Let's movers. Let's turn
back to the labor market. Key data
coming out through the week, including
Friday's highly anticipated payrolls
report with a look ahead. Here's Mike
McKe. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, let's pick up
on what Danny said about trying to find
some good news. Are we going to find any
in this week's big data releases? August
is over. It's the first week of
September, and that means the big data
numbers for the month get released for
the most part this week. And we start
today with the ISM manufacturing
numbers. Are they going to show any kind
of rebound? And what's they what are
they going to show us about prices paid?
Factory orders, jolts, and the beige
book tomorrow. Beigebook will get some
interest. Thursday's a big day. not only
for the markets but for Lisa because ADP
comes out and you know it's really weird
Lisa that everybody in the markets is
saying we're suddenly going to pay much
more attention to ADP since we don't
necessarily know if we can trust the
jobs report. We'll get a lot of a lot of
attention paid to that. Jobless claims
also on Thursday and then Friday, as you
mentioned, the August jobs report right
now. 75,000 jobs created expected, but
given the revisions last month, we're
going to be looking to see what the ISM,
the ADP, the jobless claims tell us that
might change minds among those who are
prognosticating for Friday. What else to
watch? Lot going on besides just the
data numbers. We got the Lisa Cook
situation. The judge last week gave the
plaintiffs, Lisa Cook and her lawyers
till today to file a response to the
government's arguments. We don't know
what happens then. Does she make a
ruling or does she ask for another
hearing? We hope to find out something
today. Steven Myron gets his hearing on
Thursday to become a member of the open
market committee, a Fed governor, and
we're expecting perhaps a vote next week
on the Senate floor. Alberto Busalum
speaks on Wednesday. I put this on there
because he's been one of the more
hawkish members. Has he changed his
mind? Is he more open to the idea of
that September rate cut? And then of
course, we're all waiting for the
administration response to that AIPA
ruling because if the tariffs are on, if
the tariffs are off, that's going to
make a big difference to what the Fed
does. We probably won't have a decision
by September meeting, but we'll have uh
something for them to think about, no
doubt.
>> Mike, just before you go, ADP, can you
just sit on the ADP report just for a
few beats? Can you explain to us the
relationship between ADP and payrolls
more recently? And has ADP given
essentially a decent look at what's
happening with the labor market and have
we actually seen those downward
revisions on NFP come down towards ADP?
Well, that's a possibility. ADP of
course tells you you can't use their
data to predict what the NFP numbers are
going to be. And remember, these are
private payrolls. They don't include the
government side of the payrolls report
from the government. uh but they have
been uh closer now given the revisions
and we have some big revisions coming
next week to the prior year's NFP
numbers. So they might become even
closer then. But what uh is important is
that the Fed buys the ADP data on a
weekly basis and they track it. So, if
the Fed is looking at ADP and the ADP
numbers are bad, and last week Chris
Waller said they might be, uh, then
that's going to really influence the
market's thinking about what we might
get on Friday. Mike McKe, thank you,
sir. Looking ahead to ADP on Thursday,
payrolls on Friday. Steven Myron coming
up too. That's box office later this
week. For those of you that follow these
things, that really is box office,
>> especially given the push to try to get
him into the seat before the 17
September 17th meeting at the Federal
Reserve. Should be fun. Should be fun to
watch. Let's see how quickly they can
get this through.
>> I imagine some senators will be more
fired up than than others. Maybe.
>> Are you thinking about somebody name?
>> I'm thinking of the senator from
Massachusetts.
>> Say last name reminds rhymes with Baron.
>> Baron.
>> Yes. Yes. Just about
>> tren
>> kind of. Okay.
>> We can redo that another time. So this
is live by the way, you know. Okay.
Let's stick with the upcoming data. Eron
McLolin, the senior economist of the
conference board joins us now for more.
Erin, welcome to the program. Let's talk
about your data, the loss of confidence.
Are you seeing that more pronounced or
have we seen a bounce back as we come
into the post Labor Day period?
>> We have not seen a bounce back yet. It
is still, you know, after our sort of
dip after liberation day. It it elevated
a little bit in May and it's still very
similar those numbers. looking at sort
of a trend or a possible emerging trend.
It looks like younger consumers,
consumers under 35 are feeling more
negative than some older consumers. And
we think in part this might be well in
general because of cost of living. But
one thing that we're also closely
looking at is the end of dimminimus and
the additional cost for fast fashion and
other items.
>> Hold on a second, Aaron. Are you saying
that because people can't get their
Shien packages and that that's typically
the younger individual, they're feeling
worse? Uh, is that what you're sensing?
>> I am sensing that that could be the
case. Yes. So, we've done some analysis.
These packages that are coming that have
come directly from China, other places
from around the world that are have
really boomed the last few years. And in
fact, 83% of e-commerce packages come
dimminimus and they came in virtually
without any tariffs on them because they
came direct from China and elsewhere.
And we think that the additional tariffs
could add up to 210 of a percentage
point on inflation over the next year.
And it, you know, it could be a downer
for younger consumers.
>> Taking a step back, there are two prongs
to the consumer confidence uh side of
things. On one hand, there's this
question about inflation, which has been
a really dominant theme over the past
number of years. On the other hand, it's
employment, and that's kind of what
we're looking for to understand what the
breaking point will be. Are they still
confident that they will have jobs? They
still confident enough to keep spending
even if they don't feel very good about
it because they haven't always done what
they've said they've felt when it comes
to inflation.
>> Right. Right now, it seems that
consumers still feel that the labor
market is fairly healthy, although
they're starting to re reveal in some of
the answering of some of our data that
they sense that there's less jobs
available out there, which is kind of
interesting. So, personally, they may
feel confident still continue to spend,
but we do think the spending will be on
sort of not on discretionary goods is
where it will weaken. that
non-discretionary goods is where
consumers will continue to focus and
that when it comes to big purchases like
appliances and automobiles as tariffs
increasingly have an impact on these we
just may see that confidence erode in
the future months.
>> Erin, let's talk about confidence
particularly about the labor market. I
think there's a lot of confusion right
now about whether the step down in
payrolls for growth is leading towards
an increase in labor market slack or
not. What do the attitudes of consumers
towards the labor market sound like now
relative to where they were only six
months ago?
>> Well, I think consumers recognize that
the labor market is loosening, but
consumers often act based on their own
situation. So, if they feel confident in
their own situation, they will continue
to spend generally. they may be a little
bit more wary, but if they see even
though the unemployment rate has
remained steady, if they sense that
there's less jobs out there, i.e. if
they lose their job, it will be harder
to get a new one, that will certainly
has a potential to impact their
confidence.
>> Appreciate your time. You see that in
continuing claims at the moment. Eron
McLolin there, the conference board, you
see in the conference board data as well
made a note to this one, Bremo, I'm sure
you saw the same thing. The share of
consumers that said jobs were hard to
get rose for a second month to the
highest since 2021.
>> Yeah. And the ratio between hard to get
versus plentiful has been problematic
for people looking for some sort of
positive sign. At what point does that
start to impede confidence enough to
create the sort of stagflationary fear
that we saw earlier this year. Right now
we're not seeing it and we've seen that
the confidence surveys haven't always
tracked what they're doing. And we're
seeing the spending at least in earnings
which is what is giving a lot of people
confidence in small caps.
>> Might be seeing it in this market this
morning. A loss of confidence. Equities
down by more than 1% now on the S&P 500.
That's the equity situation. If you turn
to the bond market, 2-year, 10year, and
30-year bond yields higher across the
curve, up by six basis points on 10, up
by seven basis points on 30s. Over in
the UK, in the United States, we're
seeing a similar move. So, it's the UK,
it's the US, it's France. This is a
global story that keeps building and
building. Got glimpses of it over the
past year or so. Seeing another glimpse,
another bout of it so far this morning.
>> You know, the point that you made that
normally when we see a freakout or a
yippiness, it starts in Asia trading
where there's uh fewer there are fewer
traders there that are actually engaging
with futures uh thinner trading and then
it sort of diminishes as the US session
opens. This time it's been the opposite.
And what does this mean about sort of
doubling down on the themes that we're
talking about? Or at least the mood of
people coming back to work. Maybe it's
just a moodiness. They don't want to get
off the beach.
>> That's what you're putting this down to.
>> I think that people are coming back and
they're saying this is really
concerning. Question about tariffs.
Maybe just lock in some gains for now.
>> Extend the long weekend.
>> I think that that's what the that's the
message.
>> Very happy to extend the long weekend.
Got to cancel the opening bell.
>> I think that that would be great. And
then tomorrow it'll open. Great.
>> Cancel the opening bell. Let's give you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahihara. Hi, Yahihara.
>> Hi, John. The Trump administration is
preparing to take its case to the
Supreme Court after an appeals court
ruled that the bulk of Trump's global
tariffs were illegal. Treasury Secretary
Scott Besset saying the appeal will
emphasize the long-standing trade
imbalances facing the US as well as the
need to curb the flow of fentinel into
the country. Meanwhile, Secretary
Bessett also saying over the weekend the
Trump administration may declare a
national housing emergency this fall. He
declined to list any specific actions,
but Besson told the Washington Examiner
that housing affordability would be a
critical leg of Republicans 2026 midterm
election platform amid tremendous
financial disparities in housing. And
gold prices climbing to record highs,
punching above $3,500 an ounce at one
point as investors add exposure to the
precious metal in anticipation of rate
cuts from the Fed. Gold has risen more
than 30% so far this year, making it one
of the best performing major
commodities. Traders are looking ahead
to Friday's job print for further signs
of rate cuts. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with
Kathy Jones at Charles Swap.
[Music]
This last inflation report showed hardly
any signs of tariff driven inflation.
It's really hard to look at the
inflation that we're getting and cry
foul about tariffs. We think it's
coming, but we have thought it was
coming for several months now and it
hasn't shown up to the extent that we
thought it would.
>> Matt Hornbeck of Morgan Stanley looking
ahead to inflation data a week away next
week on Thursday. This coming Friday,
payroll's just around the corner. We'll
get to the week ahead in just a moment.
Want to turn to the price action.
Equities another leg lower. Session lows
down more than 1% on the S&P down by 1.5
on the Nasdaq and the Russell as well.
In the bond market, attention on the
long end of the curve. Tens and 30s, up
by seven basis points on 10, up by six
on 30s, and getting closer and closer to
5% on 30-year bond yields. Pointed out a
few times already this morning. It's not
just a move in America. It's a move made
worldwide. We're seeing it in France and
the UK. I think also worth pointing out
on a 10-year maturity, yields in America
are actually lower on the year by more
than 20 basis points. In the UK, they're
higher by more than 20 basis points. In
France, they're higher by more than 40
basis points. So the move we're seeing
elsewhere so far in 25 much more
dramatic.
>> Yeah. Decade highs when it comes to
European bond yields. Although in the
United States, it's coming with a
question mark. Why are yields higher? Is
it an inflation story or is it a growth
story? And that ultimately will decide
whether this is a good thing or whether
it's a bad thing for equities and other
risk assets.
>> I mentioned the week ahead. This is how
things are shaping up. Later on this
morning, first data point of the week,
10 a.m. Eastern time, ISM manufacturing
at 2 p.m., look out for an announcement
from the president, Donald Trump. On
Wednesday, Jolt's data, durable goods,
plus the Fed's beige book. On Thursday,
the ADP report, another round of jobless
claims, and a Senate hearing on Steven
Myron's Fed nomination. Before we get to
Friday, the main event, the big one, the
payrolls report just around the corner.
And the range, let's just say the range
is already pretty wide for Friday. 115
at the high end, zero at the low end,
and the estimates are still coming
through.
>> And how credible will the numbers be
after the firing of Bureau of Labor
Statistics chief? And how will the
administration message this given their
concern the first time around when we
got the last jobs market report and some
of the turmoil that ensued subsequently?
>> Kathy Jones, the chief fixed income
strategist at the Charles Schwab Center
for Financial Research, writes the
following. The bond market is struggling
for direction. Yield curve steepening
remains the dominant trend. Kathy joins
us now for more. Kathy, we've seen that
steepening again this morning in the US,
in France, in the UK. Can you pick one
dominant driver of things, Kathy? And if
so, what is it?
>> Well, I guess the story, well, there's
two things. There's inflation being
stubbornly high, and there's deficit
spending that continues to to increase
with no checks against it. So you have
these policies that really are
incompatible with lower inflation and
with lower yields and that I think is
driving the market um in the long end
pretty much around the world and don't
really know what's going to change that
dynamic unless you get policy changes
andor some sort of recession signal that
actually pulls long-term yields down. We
had Matt Hornbuck on on earlier today
and he was saying that this actually is
a good opportunity to buy the long end
of the yield curve around the world
including the United States if you are a
long-term investor. Do you agree with
that?
>> Well, real yields are high at the long
end. So, you could make the argument
that if you're willing to ride out the
volatility that this is an opportunity.
I I I'm not terribly enthusiastic about
that because I think that opportunity
will get uh bigger as we go forward. Uh
unless some some big change happens, but
I I would say the the bond market is
telling you not just here but everywhere
else that it's worried about the path
that we're on. And I don't see what's
going to change that path anytime soon.
>> So in other words, you think that yields
are going to go up even more. What do
you think the pain point is that would
actually prompt some sort of change on
the policy front that would prompt you
to see an opportunity?
>> Wow. Um, you know, I would have thought
we'd reach that point already. So, it's
very difficult to say what what uh what
the pain point will be. I suppose if we
go up very quickly, we hit a liquidity
uh problem, which in the US is probably
unlikely, but in other markets it could
happen. um where we start to see it very
difficult to to finance operations or to
you know get into the market in an
orderly fashion or a big big drop in the
dollar. Now, we've seen the dollar come
down pretty sharply from its peak, but a
bigger drop in the dollar might spur
some sort of action uh from policy
makers, but at this stage of the game,
they seem willing to kind of ride
through this and and continue to do what
they've been doing for decades, and that
is cut taxes and increase spending.
>> Kathy, I've got to say, the US side of
things is actually pretty stable. Some
stability in the face of what's
happening elsewhere. If you told me at
the start of the year that we'd have
yields down to 429 after all the policy
changes we've seen over the last six
months or so, I think a lot of people
might be surprised from that that we
were approaching 5% before the start of
the year and now we're down to 430 as
the rest of the world is freaking out.
The difficulties for me lie elsewhere in
the UK, in France. And Kathy, I wonder
if I could sort of frame this question
differently, whether you believe the US
can remain some kind of bastion of
relative stability in a face of what's
happening elsewhere.
>> Well, I think the US still has that
advantage having the world's reserve
currency, having um the ability or some
leeway for the Fed to cut rates. Um I
think that there is some um some room
here, but I you know our our call for
the year was a steeper yield curve as
these policies play out. And I I think
it's very difficult for the US to see a
lot of progress on the downside in
long-term yields with everything going
on in the rest of the world. So be a
bigger market, very liquid. We certainly
have the capacity to handle um our debt
and deficits. We just don't seem to do
it. And I think the market will price in
continue to price in a higher term
premium until we get some sort of
coherent policy or or a signal that the
economy is really really slowing down
and we might get that Friday with the
jobs report.
>> Certainly seeing those steeper curves
that's for sure. Kathy, thank you Kathy
Jones there of Charles Swab. Thank you
very much. Rammo, let's just finish on
that note. The US in the face of
everything at the moment, the US is
looking pretty good compared to what's
happening in the UK and France.
>> And you could say it's a bastion of
relative stability. You put that well.
Key question is going to be the labor
market data. if it rolls over, how much
do you end up seeing the dollar punished
in a material way where you see true
weakening in addition to yeah yields
coming down but a sense that maybe the
United States isn't the haven that it
was in terms of growth and uh momentum
>> and a shortened week at least Bremo had
a long weekend shorter trading week
>> sprinkle of economic data
>> there is so much going on this week with
Congress coming back with this question
of economic
>> data what's your favorite
>> well I mean payrolls report is going to
be really interesting or the ADP report
on uh Thursday that could be most
interesting, but I do think that the
economic data is going to take front and
center. Real questions though on the
political side as well.
>> The fact that ADP has taken on this
additional importance is amazing, isn't
it?
>> What's your favorite
>> ADP?
>> Hey, there you go.
>> Super excited for it. Coming up, Judian
Emanuel of Everor, Kate McShane of
Goldman Sachs, Libby Cantrol of Pimco,
Mark Cabana of Bank of America. They
join us tomorrow morning. Looking
forward to that. From New York City,
this was Bloomberg Surveillance.